Unable to find work as an actor in New York, Adam decides to move to Los Angeles to pursue his career. He moves in with his eccentric but lovable friend Candy, whose fiancé Frank supports her. Adam gets a reception job at a talent agency, but gets fired for showing up late one day. He then meets Nick, a guy from the gym who works as a director and photographer. Nick helps Adam land a job with Jet Set Productions, a company that produces gay pornography.  He is offered extra money to appear in the company's videos, but insists that he only wants to work behind the camera. However, Adam starts to struggle financially when Frank breaks up with Candy. Nick, who is now dating Adam, convinces him to appear in a solo masturbation video under the name "Andrew" in order to help pay his rent. After making more videos, his boss Ron tells him about his escort business where he pairs actors with high-profile clients.  Through his work, Adam is introduced to John, a successful actor from the popular television sitcom Life Lessons. The two start to see each other regularly, and John offers Adam a job as his assistant, which he happily takes. He later encounters Nick, who begs for money after his addiction to meth caused him to lose his job. He also apologizes for how he treated Adam, and leaves.  Sometime later, Adam is then put into the public eye when his porn star career is exposed in several tabloids. While John later explains to him that he knows Adam would not tell anyone about their relationship, he can't risk losing his career by being associated with him. While Candy wants Adam to take advantage of his newfound fame since John fired him, he says he could never hurt John. Adam then almost dies when he mixes alcohol and pills.  While in the hospital, John calls Adam to see if they can meet up without knowing about his accident. Adam then tells John that while he loves him, he can't go back to keeping their relationship a secret. Adam decides to move to Miami and figure out what he wants to do. While packing, John shows up at the apartment and says he wants Adam back into his life. They go outside where a group of paparazzi have been waiting, and kiss in front of the cameras before driving away.