Seven years after the bizarre death of Donnie Darko, a young man who was crushed to death by a jet engine that fell from the sky, his now 18-year-old sister Samantha Darko runs away from her family in Middlesex, Virginia and joins her best female friend Corey on a road trip to California. When their car breaks down in Conejo Springs, a tiny Utah town, they are helped by the town's "bad boy", Randy. The pair meet eccentric locals and learn that a local boy, Billy Moorcroft, has gone missing.  Samantha is still struggling with her brother's death and is sleepwalking. While wandering, she meets a homeless veteran with PTSD whom the locals nicknamed "Iraq Jack" (James Lafferty). As the pair sit atop a windmill, she tells him that the world will end soon, but he knows this already. The next morning she wakes up outside, and sees that a meteorite has crashed into the windmill.  A geeky guy, Jeremy (Jackson Rathbone), is interested in buying the meteorite, and chats with Samantha. Randy tells of how he misses his younger brother who has disappeared and is feared dead. During a strange episode, a vision of an undead Samantha with a piece of metal lodged in her skull takes Justin to the local church and commands him to burn it. The next day, police find Justin's dog tags in the ashes.  Samantha meets Jeremy, who is showing signs of radiation exposure from the meteorite. Justin is forging a bunny-skull mask out of scrap metal to help "his princess." Samantha wakes up next to a highway, where she encounters Randy and Corey. Samantha tells Corey she wants to get out of town but the two argue bitterly. Samantha walks away, moments before another car appears, forcing Randy to swerve his car, killing her in the crash.  Anguished about her best friend's death, Corey goes through Samantha's effects, including a book about time travel and a story Samantha wrote as a child about a unicorn who meets a boy named Justin. After a strange boy commands Corey to come with him to save Samantha, she follows him to a cave into a portal that takes her back in time.  Everything moves backwards to when Samantha is walking down the road. Corey and Randy drive up to Samantha again and Corey is nicer to her. This time, Corey is struck in a car crash. Samantha is devastated by Corey's death. After another sleepwalking incident, she sees a dress in a shop window which she recognizes from her sleepwalking visions. Jeremy exits the shop and tells her his family owns it. Randy arrives on his bike and asks if there is anything he can do to help Samantha. Samantha dismisses him and leaves before Jeremy headbutts Randy, knocking him out.  Samantha wakes up from sleepwalking and finds she is on a hilltop with Iraq Jack. He tells her his name is Justin Sparrow and the book about time travel was written by his grandmother. He made his bunny skull mask from a drawing by Samantha's deceased brother. Wandering into a nearby mine, Samantha finds the bodies of two dead boys, Randy's little brother and the missing local boy who appeared to Corey, Billy Moorcroft.  The townspeople assume that Justin is responsible for the deaths and police take him into custody. That night, Jeremy gives the dress to Samantha as a gift and he asks her to watch the July 4th fireworks show with him. On a hilltop, they see glowing tesseracts falling from the sky. He becomes manic and violent with Samantha, pushing her so hard that she falls and lies motionless; she fell onto the bunny-skull mask and a piece of it went through her head.  Randy tries to find Samantha as fiery tesseracts fall from the sky. Justin puts on his mask, and goes back in time to the moment he was sitting on the windmill that was destroyed by the meteorite at the beginning of the film. Justin believes that his death will prevent the series of events that will lead to the end of the world. He stays on the windmill and is killed by the meteorite.  Samantha and Corey visit the site and find the locals taking away Justin's body. Not wanting to profit from someone's death, the owner of the land decides not to sell the meteorite. Samantha, never having experienced the events after the meteorite crash, decides to go back home while Corey stays in the small town with Randy.