In 1937 at a London club, Hercule Poirot watches blues singer Salome Otterbourne perform. He notices Jacqueline "Jackie" de Bellefort introducing her fiancé Simon Doyle to her childhood friend, heiress Linnet Ridgeway. After meeting Simon, Linnet agrees to hire him as her land agent.  Six weeks later, Poirot encounters his friend Bouc and his mother, Euphemia, in Egypt, and the trio attend the wedding of Linnet and Simon. Others join their honeymoon trip: Linnet's maid, Louise Bourget; Salome and her niece/manager, Rosalie, Linnet's schoolfriend; Linnet's godmother, Marie Van Schuyler with her nurse, Mrs. Bowers; Linnet's financial manager and cousin, Andrew Katchadourian; and Dr. Linus Windlesham, Linnet's former fiancé who renounced his wealthy background. Linnet asks Poirot for protection from the obsessive and bitter Jackie, who has stalked the couple to Egypt.  To escape Jackie, the group boards the cruise ship S.S. Karnak, but Linnet tells Poirot she distrusts her guests. Bouc reveals he is dating Rosalie, despite his mother's disapproval; Poirot finds himself attracted to Salome. After a boulder falls off a column and nearly crushes Linnet and Simon, the guests return to the Karnak to discover Jackie has boarded. Linnet goes to bed and Simon confronts Jackie, who shoots him in the leg. When she attempts to shoot herself, Rosalie and Bouc intervene. They take Jackie to Mrs. Bowers, while Windlesham arrives to treat Simon. The following morning, Louise discovers Linnet has been fatally shot in the head. Linnet's valuable necklace has also been stolen. Poirot, assisted by Simon and Bouc, interrogates the guests, each of whom bears a grudge against Linnet or would benefit from her death.  Poirot reveals that Euphemia hired him to investigate Rosalie, who, he concludes, is more than worthy of her son's affection. Rosalie, angry at being investigated, storms off and discovers Louise's body with money. Poirot suspects Louise witnessed Linnet's murder and blackmailed the killer. Interrogating Bouc with Simon, Poirot deduces that Bouc found Linnet dead and stole her necklace to gain financial freedom from his mother but panicked and put it in Euphemia's belongings. Bouc witnessed Louise's murder, but before revealing the killer, he is shot through the throat and is killed; Poirot chases the killer, but only finds the abandoned gun.  Locking the surviving guests in the boat's saloon, Poirot reveals that Simon killed Linnet, with Jackie as the mastermind. They are still lovers and arranged Simon's romance with Linnet to inherit her wealth. Simon drugged Poirot's champagne and Jackie pretended to shoot a blank at Simon who faked his injury with paint stolen from Euphemia. While Jackie distracted Bouc and Rosalie, Simon killed Linnet and, returning to the saloon, shot his own leg, muffled by Van Schuyler's scarf. Jackie killed Louise with Windlesham's scalpel, and Bouc with Andrew's gun. As a final clue, Poirot reveals that the handkerchief used in the fake shooting, recovered along with the gun, had been faded to pink instead of brown, proving the stains were not from blood. Faced with Poirot's irrefutable proof, Jackie embraces Simon and shoots him through the back, killing them both with one shot. As the passengers disembark, Poirot is unable to voice his feelings to Salome.  Six months later, Poirot is now clean-shaven and visits Salome's club to watch her rehearse.