Hank Palmer is a successful lawyer in Chicago. When Hank receives news his mother has just died, the judge grants his case a continuance. Before returning to his hometown  in Indiana to attend the funeral, Hank argues with his neglected, unfaithful wife, Lisa, whom he is divorcing.  In Carlinville, Hank reunites with his older brother, Glen, a tire shop owner, and his younger brother, Dale. Hank's estranged father is Judge Joseph Palmer of Carlinville's criminal court, who he merely calls "Judge." The two have been estranged due to the Judge's harsh treatment of his son in light of his youthful indiscretions, including a car accident when Hank was seventeen that had ruined Glen's future MLB career and resulted in his father sending Hank to juvenile detention rather than the recommended community service or otherwise helping his son.  From the courtroom gallery, Hank discreetly watches his father presiding a case. During the proceedings, the Judge seems momentarily confused when he is unable to recall his long-time bailiff's name. The morning after the funeral, Hank notices the Judge's car has the right-front headlight and fender damaged and accuses his father, a recovered alcoholic, of driving intoxicated. The Judge reacts defensively, having no memory of an accident. Hank's strained family relationship is further complicated by his former girlfriend, Sam Powell. He comes to believe her law school-student daughter Carla, that he had earlier flirted with, may be his daughter. Sam reveals Glen is Carla's father, having briefly slept with him when Hank unexpectedly left Carlinville.  The next day, after arguing with his father, Hank vows never to return to Carlinville and leaves for the airport. Just before Hank's flight takes off, Glen calls to say their father is a suspect in a fatal hit and run accident. The victim, Mark Blackwell, is a recently released ex-convict whom Judge had sentenced to twenty years in prison for a murder that he had committed after the Judge had earlier given Blackwell a light sentence for shooting up the victim's house.  Judge is indicted after police forensics confirm Blackwell's blood is on the Judge's Cadillac. He is charged with second-degree murder. C.P. Kennedy is hired as the Judge's defense attorney. When his defense proves ineffective, Hank takes over as lead counsel. While preparing for trial, Hank learns his father is undergoing chemotherapy for terminal cancer. The Judge's inability to remember the accident or previously recall his bailiff's name may be a side effect of chemotherapy. During this time, Hank's daughter, Lauren, arrives for a short visit, meeting her grandfather for the first time and bonding with him.  At the trial, Judge, honor-bound to his ethical responsibility, insists on testifying. He scuttles his own defense by testifying he is unable to remember the accident, but believes he may have intentionally killed Blackwell. Hank pushes the Judge until he reveals that he had previously given Blackwell a lighter sentence, the biggest mistake of his career, because Blackwell's circumstances had reminded the Judge of Hank and he'd seen the troubled son that the Judge had refused to help in the young man. Judge is convicted on a lesser charge of voluntary manslaughter and sentenced to four years in the Indiana State Prison.  Seven months later, Hank returns as his father has been granted a compassionate release, allowing him to die at home. Fishing on a lake, Hank and Judge appear to have buried their mutual animosity. After praising Hank as a lawyer, the Judge suddenly and peacefully dies on the boat. The courthouse flag flies at half-mast to honor Judge. Hank visits the courthouse and spins his father's chair; it stops, facing him, indicating he is the next Judge.