In 1987, the nerdy Jenna Rink yearns to be popular, so she persuades the "Six Chicks", her school's ruling clique led by "Tom-Tom", to attend her thirteenth birthday party by doing their homework for them. Jenna's best friend and next-door neighbor, Matt "Matty" Flamhaff, who is secretly in love with her, gives her a dollhouse that he made himself and sprinkles the roof with "magic wishing dust".   The Six Chicks arrive with a few boys, including Jenna's crush Chris Grandy, and deceive the naive Jenna into waiting blindfolded in her closet (under the impression that Chris will play "seven minutes in heaven" with her), while they leave with the completed homework. When Matty discovers what happened, a humiliated Jenna tearfully wishes to be "thirty and flirty and thriving" as the magic wishing dust sprinkles on her.  The next morning, Jenna is shocked to find herself in a luxurious Fifth Avenue apartment as an adult in 2004, dating a man she does not recognize, and with no memory of the intervening seventeen years. Upon further investigation, she learns that she now works as an editor for her favorite fashion magazine, Poise, alongside co-editor and best friend, Lucy Wyman.   However, the magazine is falling behind their rival Sparkle, which her editor-in-chief, Richard Kneeland, believes is the work of a saboteur. A confused Jenna locates Matty, now a struggling photographer, in Greenwich Village in the hopes of learning what happened, only to discover that she became the new head of the Six Chicks and stopped speaking to him, and that Lucy is Tom-Tom after plastic surgery.  In her new adult life, Jenna has her ups and downs. She spends time with and advises other teenagers; saves a dull office party by leading the guests, including Matty, in an impromptu "Thriller" line dance; and meets Matty's fiancée, Wendy.   However, Jenna gradually learns that her adult self plagiarized ideas, became estranged from her parents, and cheated with a co-worker's husband. Furthermore, she overhears Lucy plotting to remove her from her presentation on a rebranding for Poise.   Jenna returns to her childhood home in New Jersey, where she reunites with her parents. Then, she reconciles with Matty and hires him to help with her presentation, as they gradually fall for each other. Jenna's presentation proves successful, but Lucy lies to Matty, claiming Jenna did not use his photos.   While looking for Matty to deliver the good news, Jenna finds Wendy, who reveals that her wedding to him is the next day. Moreover, she learns from Kneeland that Lucy became Sparkles new editor-in-chief by using Jenna's presentation. Confronting Lucy, she reveals that it was Jenna who sabotaged Poise in exchange for a position at Sparkle, though Lucy took the job first.  Jenna rushes to Matty's childhood home, where the wedding is about to take place, to reveal what happened and to convince him to give their relationship a chance. Matty explains that he already knew of Lucy's deception and has never trusted her since childhood, but too many years have passed. Still caring for Jenna, he gives her the dollhouse, which he kept despite everything, and confesses that he always loved her. A tearful Jenna leaves with the dollhouse as remnants of the magic wishing dust swirl around her by the breeze.  Jenna reawakens to find herself back in 1987 on her thirteenth birthday with a second chance, where no time has passed. When Matty finds her huddled alone in the closet, she happily embraces and kisses him. Realizing that Lucy is not a true friend, she confronts her and destroys the homework she worked on for the Six Chicks. With this second chance, she lives the intervening seventeen years differently and eventually goes on to become happily married to Matty. The newlywed couple then move into a suburban house resembling the dollhouse.