Living in Los Angeles, Martin is a divorced pharmacist while Gabriella is a physical therapy assistant from Spain. One night, the two go out with people they met on a dating app. After both dates end badly, they return to the app and match with each other. Meeting at a bar, they spend the rest of the night talking and getting to know each other. In the morning, they return to Martin's apartment and have sex. Soon after, they begin a relationship and Gabriella moves in with Martin.  Visiting Martin's parents, his father tells Gabriella that his mother has dementia. She also sees photos around the house of Martin's ex-wife, Bethany, and of an unknown girl. At home, Gabriella confronts Martin for not mentioning his mother's condition or the girl in his childhood photos. Frustrated, he accuses her of being nosy and reveals he had a sister who died when she was 16. They have a heated argument where Gabriella storms out. The next day, an acquaintance invites Gabriella to a dinner party. Meanwhile, Martin goes clubbing with his co-workers. They both cheat on each other that night, but confess the next morning, and then decide to begin an open relationship.  Gabriella's friend, Blake, invites them to a party at her boss, Larry's house. There, they both spend the night flirting with others, Martin with Blake and Gabriella with Larry who is a much older man. They then continue a string of hookups with other people until Gabriella suggests a threesome, to which Martin requests for Blake but is rebuffed by Gabriella because of their friendship. She soon starts spending more time with Larry and his daughter.  Meanwhile, Martin discovers his ex-wife recently had a child. Unsettled, he watches old home videos and later goes to a bar where he runs into Blake. After a night of drinking, it is revealed Bethany miscarried when they were together and he has unresolved feelings for her. The conversation makes Blake uncomfortable and she leaves. Martin returns home immediately to talk to Gabriella but she dismisses him. Later, Larry gives Gabriella a necklace, which she hides from Martin and they have sex. The next morning, Gabriella admits she climaxed during sex with Larry, which disturbs Martin as her other dates have never done so.  Gabriella discovers Martin's private messages to his ex-wife and he reveals he found the hidden necklace from Larry. The two have another fight and break up. Gabriella then moves in with Larry. Larry reveals that in two weeks, he will be leaving on a 2-year business trip around Europe, inviting Gabriella to join him, so she can visit her family. Meanwhile, Martin meets up with Bethany where she says she is now content with her life and wishes him well before they amicably part ways.  At a party hosted by Larry, Gabriella demands him to uninvite Blake to which he refuses and calls her immature. She immediately leaves to a club where she seduces two men before breaking down and texting Martin. The next day, Gabriella tries to apologize to Larry but he belittles her and she leaves him. Later, she returns to Martin's apartment who admits he was never comfortable with an open relationship. The two reconcile and redeclare their love for each other.