Bree decides to go for a swim at the Ketea Aquatic Center. She is joined by her sister, Jonna, a recovering drug addict who is three months clean. Clara, the janitor and an ex-convict on parole, is caught by the pool manager, McGradey, attempting to steal from the lost and found. She is fired and told to clean up. Bree realizes that her engagement ring is missing. Jonna sees the ring at the bottom of the pool and both dive in to retrieve it. McGradey, failing to notice the women in the deep end, engages the pool cover and leaves for the holidays.  Terrified, the siblings unsuccessfully attempt to escape. Jonna reveals that she is envious of Bree's successful lifestyle and recent engagement and had thrown Bree's ring into the pool. Bree opens up about their abusive, alcoholic, drug-addicted father and the fire that led to his death. She reveals that she is diabetic and requires insulin or she might slip into a diabetic coma.  Clara, preparing to leave, is surprised to see the sisters trapped underneath the pool cover. She steals Bree's cash, smartphone and credit card and blackmails Bree for her phone password and credit card PIN before turning the water heater off. The girls have no choice but to wait out the night. Clara comes back in the morning to tease them again. Jonna, angry, leads Clara to place her ear onto the small hole in the pool cover, stabbing her in the ear with a shard of tile. Clara turns on the automatic pool cleaning system, causing the girls to begin suffocating in chlorine. She then turns the system off, realizing the danger in her actions, and leaves.   Bree reveals that during the accident that killed their father, she purposely prevented their father from escaping, calling him a monster. Clara, realizing the error of her ways, decides to open the pool cover but the passcode by McGradey no longer works. She tells the sisters they are on their own and leaves again.  Bree grows weak and cold. Jonna rips off the metal grill on the bottom of the pool, which Bree had previously failed to do, and smashes the fiberglass of the pool cover, allowing them to escape. She gives Bree her insulin shot. Clara returns with a gun, threatening to kill the sisters as she does not want to go to prison again. However, she feels sympathetic, puts the gun down, and returns their belongings. Jonna tells her to leave. Paramedics arrive and Jonna returns Bree's engagement ring, which Clara had taken. When Bree asks how she got it back, Jonna replies, "I killed the monster", echoing what Bree said about killing their father, and implying that she killed Clara.