Seventeen-year-old Veronica Clarke takes a pregnancy test at school and is interrupted by her former best friend, Bailey Butler who sees that the test is positive. Initially, not knowing whose it is, Bailey offers to give a ride to a clinic where she can get an abortion if she needs one. Then, she assumes Veronica will be keeping the baby, subsequently disposing of the test.  Veronica decides to get an abortion and then discovers it is forbidden in Missouri without parental consent. She quickly formulates a plan to get to Albuquerque, New Mexico where clinics will perform abortions without parental involvement but lacks funds to make it all the way. Meeting with her boyfriend Kevin, she is shocked when he reacts to the pregnancy news by proposing. He also confesses he realised the condom had broken. Veronica pretends she will consider the proposal, taking the ring with her. She then goes to Bailey who agrees to drive her to Albuquerque.  At their first stop Veronica tries to pawn her engagement ring and is stopped by Kevin, who has been stalking her. Learning that Veronica needs the money for an abortion, the sympathetic pawnshop broker agrees to buy her ring. Veronica and Bailey head to Texas though they fight over their former friendship which Bailey fails to realize is because Bailey's father was ashamed of her nerdy pursuits as a child.  While stopping at a diner Bailey is frightened by the arrival of local sheriffs. She reveals that the Firebird they are driving belongs to her mother's boyfriend. The girls escape detection when a fellow patron named Jarrod creates a scene. Jarrod later gives them a lift, introducing them to Matthews, a race car driver, who offers to drop them off at the closest bus station. Matthews turns out to be a woman (Kira), who Bailey is immediately attracted to. Bailey then reveals she's a lesbian and later has her first kiss with Kira.  Before Kira can drive them to the station a young couple, overhearing their need for a ride to Albuquerque for the abortion, offers to drive them all the way.  Bailey and Veronica wake up in the morning at the couple's house, where they discover that the couple are actually pro-lifers trying to stop Veronica from having the abortion. They manage to escape the pro-lifers by stealing their Yukon and faking their own deaths.  Arriving at the nearest bus station they discover it is out of order but stumble across a mechanic shop run by anti-government survivalist Bob. Hearing Veronica needs an abortion he agrees to drive her to the clinic in an old Lincoln limo. During the ride, Veronica's friends call and urge her to say the pregnancy test belongs to Bailey. Wanting to protect herself Veronica agrees that Bailey is the most likely suspect. Bailey overhears, triggering a fight between them about the dissolution of their friendship. Bailey leaves while Veronica continues on to her appointment. When Veronica realizes Bailey has gone to see her estranged father, she reschedules the appointment and follows Bailey. Arriving at a flower shop Bailey's father works in, Veronica witnesses their awkward reunion, and comes to Bailey's defense when her father treats her coldly.  At the clinic, Kevin surprises them and threatens to tell everyone about the abortion unless Veronica stays with him, but she tells him to go ahead and do it. After the abortion, they realize they have no more cash and make calls to their respective mothers who get them plane tickets home. At home, Veronica's mother admits to being confused by her choice but reiterates her love for her daughter.  At school the next day Veronica learns that Kevin never revealed her abortion to her friends, but she decides to tell them anyway. She also decides to continue her friendship with Bailey and goes to sit with her at lunch. Some time later, the two go on another road trip to Roswell, New Mexico.