On Christmas Eve in London, Ebenezer Scrooge, a miserly moneylender at a counting house, has settled his melancholy into an eternal bitterness towards Christmas and his fellow men. He declines an offer from recently widowed Mr. Smythe and his daughter Grace to pay for Mrs. Smythe's funeral, voicing his support for the prisons and workhouses for the poor, and reluctantly accepts his loyal but meek employee Bob Cratchit's (who is the constant target of his cruelty) request to have Christmas Day off since there will be no business for Scrooge on the day. As Scrooge leaves for home, he declines his nephew Fred's invitation to Christmas dinner, and encounters three individuals—a candle-lighter, a barker and an old blind woman—and declines their offers to help them or to give money for charity. In his house, Scrooge is visited by the ghost of his deceased longtime friend and business partner, Jacob Marley, who warns Scrooge to mend his ways, lest he be condemned in the afterlife like he was, informing him that three spirits will visit him during the night.  At one o'clock, Scrooge is visited by the fairy-like Ghost of Christmas Past, who takes him back in time to his childhood and early adult life. They visit the time when his father John William was sent to prison for failing to pay debts. Scrooge's mother died shortly afterwards and he and his sister Fan were separated. During his lonely days as a boot factory worker, he was never reunited with Fan who died giving birth to Fred. Scrooge is shown his time as an employee along with a young Marley under Mr. Fezziwig who throws a Christmas party, where Scrooge proposes to a young woman named Emily. However, the Ghost shows Scrooge how he and Marley started to chose money over people and how Fezziwig—following a downturn in his business—approached Scrooge and Marley for a business loan. Scrooge refuses the request, stating that he and Marley would be throwing good money after bad. Emily leaves Scrooge, returning his ring, after realizing how hard-hearted he has become. The Ghost finally shows him when Marley dies after overworking himself. A devastated Scrooge dismisses the Ghost after he returns to his bed.  At two o'clock, Scrooge is visited by the merry Ghost of Christmas Present who shows him the joys and wonder of Christmas Day. Scrooge and the Ghost visit Bob Cratchit's house, learning his family is content with their dinner. Scrooge and the Ghost visit Fred's house, where Fred hopes that someday his uncle will join them as family, due to his mother loving him. Scrooge takes pity on Bob's ill son, Tiny Tim. The Ghost shows him the evils of "Ignorance" and "Want" and comments that Tiny Tim might not survive unless the future changes before he disappears.  At three o'clock, the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Be appears to Scrooge, as a silent woman under a beggar's robes. The Ghost takes Scrooge to a cemetery, where Scrooge recognizes his deceased self as his housekeeper Mrs. Mopps trades his possessions to a fence named Old Joe. Scrooge then sees Tiny Tim has died and his family mourning hin. When the Ghost points out his own grave showing his death year as 1850. He vows to change his ways. Scrooge is surrounded by the Cratchits, Grace and the spirits of his mother and sister, which encourage him to feel love and compassion again; Scrooge's grave begins to crack, hinting that the future already has begun to change, and Scrooge, misunderstanding this to be a sign he is doomed, tries to run as the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Be throws his bed curtains over him to return him to his bed.  Finding it is Christmas Day, a gleeful Scrooge decides to surprise Bob's family with a turkey dinner, and ventures out to spread happiness and joy throughout London. After paying off Mr. Smythe's debt, Scrooge once again encounters the candle-lighter, barker, and blind woman—who are the Ghosts in their human forms—and thanks them. Scrooge goes to the Cratchit house, at first putting on a stern demeanor, and then revealing he intends to raise Bob's salary and to help his struggling family. Scrooge then goes to Fred's house to reconcile with him and accept his inviation. Snow begins to fall as everyone celebrate Christmas with the neighborhood and the Cratchits.