Young couple Richard (Michael Urie) and Alex (Randy Harrison) want what everyone wants: career, kids and a gorgeous home in L.A. But it all seems so impossible until they crash a party at Edendale, their dream house, owned by Jake (Scott Wolf) and Chloe (Kate Reinders), who are hosting a fundraiser for the orphans of Bhutan.  Richard and Alex hit it off with the hosts, and while house-sitting for them, discover a secret room filled with a million in cash.  When Jake and Chloe die in a "rickshaw accident" overseas, Richard and Alex worry the cash might not go to the orphans, so they break into Edendale and take the money. They earnestly try to donate the money to Jigme Wangchuck (Alec Mapa), the deputy ambassador of the Embassy of Bhutan, and his assistant Priti Khagda (Tania Gunadi).  But the Embassy officials, thinking they're being set up, refuse the money.  So Richard and Alex deposit the cash, find another charity, and end up writing a check to "The Porpoise Purpose," headed by Stuart Hendron (Lance Bass) and his assistant Olivier (Mitch Silpa).  Just then, they learn from their Realtor, Logan, (Tom Lenk), that Edendale is now on the market.  They really want it but have given the money to the porpoise charity—so they stop payment on the check and use the money as down payment on the house, intending to repay the charity by taking out a second mortgage once escrow closes.  But tough yet savvy LAPD Detective Dianne Kershman (Ana Ortiz) sees things differently.  She tells Richard and Alex that Jake and Chloe were in fact murdered.  Worried the killers must be after the money, they panic and confide in Alex's half-sister, Paige (Carrie Wiita) and her husband, Cooper (James Urbaniak) who are therapists and RX drug dealers.  Paige and Cooper realize the money Jake had owed them somehow ended up with Richard and Alex, whom they convince to take out the second mortgage—in cash.  And after an ill-fated labradoodle kidnapping and hostage stand-off, Paige and Cooper discover the money hidden in the house and take it.  Shattered, Richard and Alex do in fact sell Edendale.  They repay the Porpoise Purpose, as Det. Kershman had pretty much guaranteed jail-time if they didn't.  Richard and Alex then learn from Jake and Chloe's questionable Buddhist lawyer Sidney (Rick Overton) that they were in possession of a rare Bhutanese artifact of Jake and Chloe's, the Kuntu Zangpo, worth $10 million, which Paige and Cooper also took.  They interrupt Paige and Cooper's black market sale to art dealer Clay Hampton (Drew Droege), and get them—and Sidney—to confess.  Det. Kershman rushes in and arrests Paige and Cooper for, among other things, drug dealing.  She thanks Richard and Alex for helping with the sting.  The chastened couple flies to Bhutan and returns the $10 million tchotchke to the orphanage, run by Buddhist monk Chana Dorje (Kee Chan) and they finally get their wish—they adopt a young boy, Kuenphay (Forrest Wheeler).  They couldn't be happier.  Well, maybe they could—if they had a house.