A group of young adults – Oscar and Karen, Beth and her marine infantry boyfriend Randy, and the latter's sister Emily and her boyfriend Niles, who is an ex-Navy SEAL – are traveling through the backwoods town of Fort Collins, Louisiana, when they pull over at a rundown gas station. While there, Oscar discovers a shrine to local legend, Lockjaw. The townies give the boys directions to a house built by "Grimley" himself, a local tourist attraction that they are hesitant to explore, only Oscar and Beth seem interested and convince the others to go with them. En route, Oscar tells them all the legend of Lockjaw:  A long time ago, Grimley Boutine and his sister Caroline were the last two remaining members of their clan. Incest was a part of their family and heritage, so it was no surprise that she was carrying his child and the two were madly in love and due to be married, but the day before their wedding, an albino alligator dragged Caroline off into the swamp. Grimley sought out the gator in the hopes that he would find her alive, but instead he came across her being devoured in a corpse-filled, half-flooded mine tunnel. Going insane with rage, Grimley killed the gator with his bare hands, before eating its flesh, then consuming the flesh of his sister, along with every other piece of flesh in the cave, slowly devolving, becoming half-man, half-alligator himself.  The others disbelieve the story, and they finally arrive at Grimley's house, unaware that they are being stalked by something in the swamp. They set up camp for the night near the Grimley house for an evening of drinking and having fun. Meanwhile, one of the shop patrons, Grover, is slaughtered by an unseen beast on the riverbank after ignoring warnings to not defy Grimley. Randy leaves the group to get more beer from the truck, returning just in time to interrupt Karen from taking advantage of a drunken Beth. Emily and Niles, having gone off on their own, admit their love and devotion to one another before making love, unaware that Oscar is secretly taking photos. Karen finds him, and masturbates him to climax as he continues to take photographs of the couple. When Oscar refuses to return the favor, however, she walks off and is knocked unconscious by Chopper, the owner of the store they'd come across. It is revealed that Oscar and Karen are both his children, and subservient to Lockjaw himself, he takes Karen away. Randy witnesses this and sees Lockjaw before running off into the woods. Oscar collapses on Emily and Niles, claiming that Randy had attacked him; Niles leaves Emily to treat Oscar's shock as he goes off in search of Randy. Randy and Niles both encounter Lockjaw and run, coming across a highway that they had supposedly gotten far off track from earlier; they return to look for Emily, only to be stopped by one of the shop workers who holds them at gunpoint. Niles is able to kill him, but Lockjaw gruesomely murders Randy.  Afterward, Beth awakens from her drunken unconsciousness, her tent having been moved into a deep dark cave. As she emerges from it she discovers Lockjaw eating one of his victims and lets out a horrified scream, being presumably killed by him. Karen, having been set up as a sacrifice to Lockjaw, has her feet cut off by her father to lure Lockjaw from the underground, saying that it must be done for the family. After he leaves, Lockjaw emerges from the cavern below the shack and seems to recognize her by the necklace Chopper put around her neck, the same one that belonged to his sister. Niles finds Karen dead when he comes across the cabin, and is attacked by Oscar but quickly dispatches him with a machete. Afterwards, he sneaks into Lockjaw's cave to save Emily, when they emerge they manage a brief escape before she is taken by Chopper and his followers, with Lockjaw throwing Niles into the river to drown or become food to the gators. Chopper says to Emily that Lockjaw has chosen her to become his next bride. Niles, who is alive, follows the party to a gathering ritual that will allow Grimley to impregnate Emily. During the ceremony, Niles attacks, and after receiving a brutal beating from the overpowering Lockjaw, he manages to knock him into a sinkhole to drown. He unties Emily but, as Niles is reviving her, Lockjaw attacks again, pulling Emily into the hole, with Niles following. Later, at dawn, Emily and Niles (who is holding the jaw of Lockjaw) emerge from the sink hole alive. They manage to make their way back to their truck and ride off into the rising sun.  Some time later, Chopper arrives at the refurbished Grimley cabin, which is hopping with family and friends in a huge celebration. It is revealed that Beth had survived her ordeals with Lockjaw and now has a baby, who Chopper seems sure is going to "grow up to be as strong as his daddy". It is shown that the baby's face is somewhat mutated and the screen goes dark.