Jenny, a music journalist living in New York City, lands her dream job with Rolling Stone in San Francisco. Her boyfriend of nine years, Nate, breaks up with her, and she spirals into a depression.   Jenny's best friends, Erin, a real estate agent afraid to admit her feelings to her girlfriend, Leah, and Blair, a social media manager who needs to break up with her boyfriend, Will, with whom she has lost chemistry, are the only ones who can bring her out of her funk. Jenny contacts Erin and Blair after learning the concert series known as Neon Classic is putting on a pop-up show at Sony Hall and proposes one last adventure together before she moves, both to celebrate a new chapter in her life and to mend her broken heart.  The girls meet up by taking a day off from work. Throughout the day, they find it difficult to secure tickets for the concert, eventually obtaining them through Jenny's former college crush, Matt, with whom Blair has sex. Erin and Jenny run into Leah, and Erin clearly has some unresolved issues stemming from her fear of commitment.   Blair breaks up with Will after finding him cleaning her apartment without her, and it ends amicably. The girls all go to the concert in the evening and Jenny runs into Nate, but cannot bring herself to talk to him, and gets separated from her friends. Matt takes her to the after-party where she realizes she needs closure.  After a heart-to-heart where Erin admits she needs to grow up and Blair admits that she needs to lower her own expectations, they go to find Jenny at the after-party, but not before Erin meets up with Leah and they acknowledge their feelings for each other and agree to take their relationship slow.  They discover that Jenny is no longer at the after-party and are initially confused when they are told that she left to "finish it", referring to the relationship. Erin realizes that Jenny went to Washington Square Park, where her relationship with Nate began. Jenny is found sitting on the side of the fountain where nine years prior he had written their initials and a smiley face inscribed within a heart.   Initially it seems that Nate came to apologize and ask to take her back, but this is proven to be a dream that Jenny had after she passed out. Blair and Erin come to find her and the three walk off together, promising that their friendship will stay strong even after Jenny leaves for San Francisco.