Gloria Bell is a middle-aged divorcée living in LA. She has two children: Anne, a kindhearted yoga instructor, and Peter, an uninspired married man who cares for his infant son while his wife is away. Gloria spends her nights letting loose at dance clubs around the city that play 1970s and 1980s dance music.  One night, she meets Arnold, also a divorcée, and they hit it off. They sleep together and begin a relationship shortly after. However, Gloria is annoyed when Arnold admits that he still financially supports his ex-wife and two daughters, who are unemployed and demanding. Arnold owns a paintball arena and introduces Gloria to the sport.  At Peter’s birthday party, Gloria introduces Arnold to her children, ex-husband Dustin, and Dustin’s wife Fiona. During a toast, Gloria unwittingly reveals that Anne is pregnant; the father is a Swedish wave rider and she plans to move to Sweden with him, which Dustin was not aware of. Later, they look at old family photos including Gloria and Dustin's wedding pictures. Gloria and Dustin laugh at the old photos but Arnold, feeling left out, leaves unnoticed. When Gloria realizes Arnold has left, everyone goes looking for him before giving up. Gloria leaves the party embarrassed.  Arnold repeatedly calls her, and finally catches up with her as she is leaving work. He attempts to justify his sudden exit from the party by claiming he tried initiating eye contact with her but her eyes were not  looking for him. When he again mentions his daughters' calls, she blows him off. She tries to return his paintball guns but he refuses, so she drives away with them.  Gloria's mentally unstable neighbor leaves his marijuana on her doorstep one night, and, impulsively, she smokes it and goes dancing. The next day, she drives Anne to the airport for her trip to Sweden, tearfully accepting her daughter is grown up. Soon after, Gloria is told by a doctor that she will have to take prescription eyedrops for the rest of her life for her failing eyesight.  Gloria finally returns Arnold's calls and they arrange a trip to Las Vegas. As they are settling into their room, he again receives a call from his daughters, who inform him that his ex-wife injured herself walking through a sliding glass door. Despite his daughters’ protests, Arnold refuses to cancel the trip, and he and Gloria have sex that night. During a romantic dinner together, Gloria suggests that they take a trip to Spain. Arnold agrees; when Arnold’s phone continues to ring, Gloria drops it in his soup. He excuses himself, saying he'll be back immediately. After some time passes, Gloria realizes that Arnold has deserted her and discovers he has checked out of their hotel room, leaving her without her luggage or a place to stay. To drown her sorrows, she dazedly drinks and parties with random people, hooking up with an anonymous man and experiencing a hallucinatory trip. She wakes up on a pool chair missing a shoe and calls her mother to take her home.  Arnold tries calling Gloria multiple times and she unplugs her phone in response. Still stuck with the paintball guns, she resolves to throw them away, but goes back to retrieve them at the last minute. Driving to Arnold's house, she silently shoots his house and him in anger. His ex-wife and daughters rush outside yelling obscenities, but Gloria remains unfazed and drives away, laughing with "Total Eclipse of the Heart" playing on her stereo.  At the wedding reception for the daughter of her friend Vicky, Gloria is asked to dance as the song "Gloria" starts to play, but she politely declines. Vicky coaxes her out, and Gloria changes her mind, gets on the dance floor and begins to lose herself in the music.