In 1933, Jesse Owens attends Ohio State University; the first in his family to attend college. He faces racial discrimination from some white athletes. Coach Larry Snyder, a former Olympic-level athlete, believes Owens has enormous potential but needs work on his form and technique. When Snyder suggests he is good enough to compete at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin, Owens is interested, but hesitant because of racial propaganda in Nazi Germany. The U.S. Olympic Committee is already considering boycotting the Olympics over Germany's discriminatory policies, agreeing to participate only when Nazi official Joseph Goebbels gives assurances that athletes of any race will be allowed compete, as well as promising to rein in their propaganda.  As Owens struggles to support his girlfriend Ruth and young daughter, he takes a job at a service station, upsetting Snyder when his job conflicts with his commitment to train. When Snyder learns Owens has a family to support, he gets him a no-show job, allowing him to focus on running. Owens goes on to break several records, including some of Snyder's, and begins a relationship with a flashy woman whose attentions he attracts with his newfound fame. When Ruth threatens him with a lawsuit, Owens becomes distracted and loses a race to runner Eulace Peacock. Owens decides to return to Ruth to reconcile, convincing her to marry him. As the Olympics draw closer, the NAACP asks him not to go to Berlin for political reasons. Owens is conflicted, but Peacock, now injured, urges him to compete to defy Nazi racial ideology.  In Berlin, Owens sets a new record and wins his first gold medal in the 100 meter dash. When he is brought by International Olympic Committee member Avery Brundage to receive congratulations from Adolf Hitler, he is told the Hitler has left the stadium early to avoid traffic. Brundage tells Goebbels that Hitler must congratulate all winners, which Goebbels rebuffs.  Owens qualifies for the long jump after the German record holder Luz Long unexpectedly gives him guidance. Owens sets yet another record and wins the gold medal; Luz publicly shakes his hand and joins him for a victory lap, later privately expressing concern about the current state of Germany. Owens wins his fourth and final gold medal in the 4 x 100 meter relay, filling in for two Jewish American athletes cut by Brundage, who is convinced by Goebbels to do so to avoid a scandal over a business arrangement Brundage entered with the Nazis before the games. Film director Leni Riefenstahl records Owens' victories despite Goebbels' orders; she asks Owens to repeat his medal-winning long jump to get a few more shots for her next film, Olympia.  Back in America, Owens and Snyder attend a banquet in honor of Owens, but the doorman regretfully tells Owens he must enter through the service entrance. Owens does so despite Snyder's protests, recognized by various awed observers. The elevator operator, a young white male, asks for Owens' autograph before taking him and Ruth up to the banquet.