Wesley Darya is struggling to find a job and a partner and desperately wants to settle down. She goes on a blind date with a man named Sean. However, he ends the date abruptly when she mentions marriage and kids too frequently. Immediately after leaving the date, she meets Jared, a charming and attractive man who came to her aid after she tripped and fell on the sidewalk. Drawn to his looks and desperate to date him, Wesley starts to hide her true self to make the relationship work.  After dating for a month, Jared and Wesley finally have sex. When he does not contact her for five days, she becomes upset and suspicious that he has ghosted her. She gets drunk with her two best friends, Brooke and Kaylie, and the trio writes a long and insulting email to him. Jared calls Wesley to tell her that he had gotten into a serious accident in Mexico, without having checked his emails as his phone was in his resort room. To save her relationship, Wesley decides to go to Mexico with Brooke and Kaylie, sneak into Jared's resort room and delete the email.  After checking in, Wesley bumps into Sean at the same resort. She repeatedly tries and fails to gain access to Jared's room, and is eventually kicked out of the resort. When she tries to break in again, against her friends’ advice, she is caught and arrested. Sean, Brooke, and Kaylie come to pick her up, and he agrees to help Wesley delete the email before Jared is released from the hospital.   When Jared calls her to tell her he is being released early, Wesley decides to meet him at the Mexican airport and fly back with him, deleting the email on the flight. On the way to the airport, Sean tells Wesley that she had been his first and only date after the death of his wife, and that he is not planning on dating again. He had ended the date because he was not ready to move on from his wife. They bond over the drive, and Sean encourages her to tell Jared the truth.  On the plane, Wesley gains access to the email and is about to delete it when she decides to tell Jared the truth. After reading it, he breaks up with her for lying to him. After the plane lands, Wesley complains to her friends, but they accuse her of neglecting them during the trip. When she tells them her problems are more important than theirs, they end their friendship with her, leaving her at the airport.  Wesley later finds a job as a guidance counselor after Sean recommends her to one of his friends. She apologizes to her friends and they forgive her, after she admits her flaws and thanks them for always supporting her. Wesley tracks down Sean, who is at the same restaurant where they had gone on their blind date. She realizes he is on another blind date, and apologizes but confesses her feelings for him. He tells her that what they had in Mexico was too serious and is only interested in something casual.   Saddened, Wesley leaves the restaurant, but Sean rushes out to find her shortly after. He agrees to date her and they kiss on the street. Sean's date angrily walks past them, complaining on the phone to her mother about her terrible date.