In the Middle Ages, young Frederick Claus grows up in the shadow of his younger brother Nicholas. Nick's selfless and kind attitude constantly wins the approval of his family over Fred, causing a strained relationship that is permanently damaged when Nick cuts down a tree, inadvertently destroying the bird house in which Fred's bird named Chirp Chirp lived in. Due to Nick's generous and helpful personality, he is deemed a Saint, and the family is gifted with immortality.  In the present, Nick has become the modern-day Santa Claus, delivering gifts to the children of the world. Fred has become a repossession agent in Chicago. Fred lives alone and is friends with orphan Samuel "Slam" Gibbons. After his girlfriend Wanda breaks up with him, Fred is fired and arrested for impersonating a Salvation Army employee in an attempt to raise seed money for an illegal casino plan. Fred asks Nick for bail and seed money. Nick only agrees on the condition that Fred comes to the North Pole to work for the money; Slam asks Fred to pretend to be his father but ends up being taken away and sent to an orphanage.  Head Elf Willie escorts Fred to the North Pole. Nick gives Fred the task of assigning children as naughty or nice based on their behavior. Efficiency expert Clyde Northcutt, from an agency which monitors the activities of supernatural entities, arrives to analyze the North Pole's dwindling performance on a three-strike assessment. Fred picks a fight with the workshop's DJ Donnie after he plays "Here Comes Santa Claus" numerous times, causing a disruption that leads to Northcutt assigning the North Pole their first strike. Nick sandbags Fred into having dinner that evening with their parents.  Later that night, Northcutt shreds the children's letters. Fred is falsely blamed for "losing" the letters, and the lack of backup copies leads to a second strike. Not believing Fred's denials, Nick has security abduct Fred, and brings him to an intervention, attended by their parents, Nick's wife Annette, Wanda, and a psychologist. Angered by Fred's self-centeredness and his obnoxious attitude, Wanda leaves. Fred grows upset by her departure from the intervention and insults Nick and lambasts his parents for having favoritism. Following the intervention, Clyde Northcutt messes with Fred’s head and after seeing Slam at the top of the Naughty List, Fred snaps and assigns every naughty child as nice.  The brothers get into a fight over Fred's decision, which leads to Nick injuring his back. Unable to now produce enough gifts for every good child, the North Pole falls far behind schedule, leading Northcutt to assign the third strike, shutting down the workshop. Fred leaves, taking his money and a gift from Nick. Fred opens his gift: a replica of the birdhouse Chirp Chirp lived in and a note from Nick apologizing for cutting down the tree. This causes Fred to have a change of heart and he attends a meeting with the siblings of other celebrities in an attempt to sort out his issues. Fred then uses the seed money to make his way back to the North Pole.  Fred motivates the elves to make as many gifts as possible. Because of his injury, Nick is unable to deliver gifts. Feeling guilty, Fred decides to deliver the presents (as only a Claus can deliver the gifts). He reminds Nick that most of the naughty kids aren't bad, but good kids going through bad situations, and that every child deserves a gift on Christmas. Fred gets the workshop to quickly make simple gifts so that every child gets a toy. Fred and Willie begin to deliver the gifts, but Northcutt sabotages their efforts and fires the elves. Nick realizes that Northcutt was also bullied as a child, which caused him to become troubled. Nick apologizes to Northcutt for putting him at the top of the Naughty List in 1968 and gives him the Superman cape he had asked for as a child.  Disguised as Santa, Fred visits Slam and gives him the dog he wanted for Christmas and tells Slam to become a better person. After every gift is delivered, Fred returns to the North Pole while Willie finally starts a relationship with the tall elf, Charlene, Santa's "little" helper. Fred reconciles with Wanda and takes her to Paris as he promised to do for her a while ago. The next Christmas, Fred and Nick have made amends and he has hired a now-reformed Northcutt to work at the North Pole while Slam is adopted. On New Year’s Eve the Claus family reunite, and Chirp Chirp finally returns to the Clauses and lives in the birdhouse Nick gave Fred.