An alien ship approaches the Earth and launches a probe which enters the atmosphere and then splashes into the Pacific, where it is devoured by a great white shark. The shark convulses and in a few moments is transformed by the probe into a red-lined robotic simulacrum of the ocean predator. An American nuclear submarine in the area detects the robotic shark's movements and, considering it an unknown hostile entity, the captain decides to destroy it. Instead, the submarine's hull is breached by the shark's newly enhanced teeth and all hands are lost.  In Seattle, a viral video of uncertain authenticity begins to circulate of a seaplane being attacked in the harbour. Local reporter Trish Larson is tired of her role as "the wacky weather girl" and complains about fake news. She defies station orders and takes her cameraman Louie to cover area military activity in the Discovery Park area, and they witness the so-called Roboshark as it invades a coffee shop and devours a customer who unwittingly livestreams his own demise. Trish's story is hijacked by her colleague Veronica. Trish's husband Rick, a supervisor at the Seattle public works department, is tracking the alien's progress through the sewers and informs her of its movements even as Roboshark begins trending in earnest. The Navy commandeers his office, determined to destroy Roboshark by any means necessary, even at the cost of bystanders' lives. thumb|Pacific Place (interior) Navy SEALs track and engage Roboshark in the Pacific Place mall. The men's guns are minimally effective against its metal frame, slowing it down but ultimately failing to stop it and it kills them. Trish and Melody record the latter stages of the encounter and post it on YouTube, getting high numbers of views, but are disappointed to find that many people do not take the video seriously. Trish's teenage daughter Melody discovers that Roboshark is following her on Twitter, and realizes that it is not acting out of malginant intent but reacting defensively. In a close encounter with Melody, the alien's robotic form's colours switch from its usual aggressive red to a more "friendly" green. thumb|The Space Needle Trish, Melody, and Louie try to convince Admiral Black that Roboshark intended no harm, to no avail. A techpreneur "more powerful" than the President arrives - Bill Glates. He tries to help the Navy by communicating with Roboshark with a view to reverse engineering it, using a small quadcopter, but the plan fails as Roboshark traces the signal back to its source and Glates - after crying out "It's full of stars!" - is dragged around a park to his death. Veronica gets too close to the action in her zeal to win a Peabody Award and is likewise killed. A final confrontation ensues at the Space Needle, which Roboshark intends to use as a means to "phone home". The battle leads to the Needle collapsing, Admiral Black along with it, and the disappearance of the alien. Rick is reunited with Trish and Melody.  Some time later, a woman walks in the park amid the Space Needle debris with a small dog whose eyes begin to glow red. This implies that Roboshark is alive and has transferred its consciousness into the dog.