As Jesus Quintana is released from prison, and is reminded by the warden that one more strike will get him locked up for good. He is also thanked for winning a bowling tournament for the prison.   Jesus's friend Petey picks him up, and they go into town. Finding a classic muscle car, they steal it and drive to his mother's. She is having sex with a man who Quintana kicks out. He gives her some money and they have dinner. When Petey and Quintana return the car to where it was parked, the owner confronts them with a gun. His girlfriend Marie recognizes Quintana. Petey runs away, the owner shoots him in the testicles so Quintana beats him up.   Petey, Quintana, and Marie take off in the car and exchange it at a chop shop. Quintana takes Petey to a doctor to get the bullet fragment extracted. After they learn it only pierced the scrotum, they rob him. Marie stays behind and cuts the chop shop mechanic's hair. Petey and Quintana return and have him damage the muscle car's brakes and structural integrity. The trio then take off in the other car.   Stopping at a restaurant, Petey and Quintana take off upon seeing cops. They steal two bicycles and are chased by farmers. Marie leaves the restaurant and is chased for pulling a runner. Petey and Quintana steal another car, drive to train tracks and board a train. Getting off, they watch a woman breast feed her infant in a train station. Marie finds them there and angrily confronts them for deserting her, then the trio board another one.   They find a house where Quintana washes Petey's wound. Marie tells them that the owner of the car, Paul has sold it. Petey has sex with Marie while Quintana watches, cheering them on. Marie explains that she has had sex with thousands of people. When they break into Paul's beauty salon and steal the money, Marie freaks out and attacks them. They tie her up and leave her there. The pair go bowling, where Quintana dances with a woman, who yells at him and leaves.  The pair pick up recently released inmate Jean from a woman's prison, and they take her to buy clothes. At a restaurant on the beach, Jean talks to the owner about her menstrual cycle. Then they head to a motel and Petey and Quintana have sex with Jean who then shoots and kills herself. The pair flee and go back to the house from earlier, where Marie is waiting.  They discover that Jean's son, Jack is getting out of prison the next day, so Petey and Quintana pick him up. The three go to a cabin in the woods where Marie is waiting, and have breakfast. Jack has sex with Marie, while Quintana and Petey go fishing.   The four of them go to rob a corrections officer Jack knows, who he shoots and has nothing, and then hovers outside while the other three flee. They steal another car and leave the city. At a gas station, Petey and Quintana read in a newspaper, that they are wanted in the shooting of the officer. They steal a smart car and eventually pull over for Marie to pee by a lake. At the side of the road is a muscle car that belongs to people boating there.   Quintana, Petey, and Marie steal the car, leaving the smart car behind. Later, it loses control as the foundation comes loose, the brakes jam and they crash. After which they realize it was Paul's car from earlier with a new paint and body job. It crashed due to the damage that was inflicted on it in the chop shop. So, they start to hitchhike.