Years after the outbreak, Tallahassee, Columbus, Wichita and Little Rock encounter new strains of zombies: "Homers" (slow and dumb), "Hawkings" (partial intelligence), and "Ninjas" (silent and deadly).   Living in the White House, Tallahassee rebuffs Little Rock's hopes of searching for a boyfriend, while Columbus awkwardly proposes to Wichita. The day after they celebrate Christmas, Tallahassee finds a note from the girls, revealing they took off in a weaponized version of The Beast. A month later, while exploring a mall, Columbus and Tallahassee meet Madison, who survived the apocalypse hiding in a Pinkberry store. Columbus and Madison have sex at the White House and are discovered by Wichita, who reveals Little Rock stole The Beast and left for Graceland with Berkeley, a mysterious pacifist.  Fearing for Little Rock's safety, the group heads to Graceland. Attempting to switch cars, they fight off a horde of zombies, leading to Madison being scratched on the foot by a "Ninja" and being saved by Columbus. The last zombie in the bunch is labelled "T-800": a strain which takes multiple gunshots to kill. Retreating to their car, Madison appears to turn into a zombie; this forces them to pull over, and Columbus decides to lead her into the forest and kill her.  The trio arrive at a ruined Graceland, without sign of Little Rock, Berkeley, and The Beast. They discover The Beast at a nearby Elvis-themed motel and meet Nevada, who reveals Little Rock and Berkeley took another vehicle to Babylon, a hippie commune. Nevada and Tallahassee spend the night together. The next morning, The Beast is crushed by a monster truck owned by Albuquerque and Flagstaff, who share history with Nevada. They then encounter several T-800s, leading to Albuquerque and Flagstaff being bit and ultimately killed by Tallahassee and Columbus.  While traveling to Babylon, they encounter Madison driving an ice cream truck heading in the same direction. She explains her nut allergy caused symptoms similar to zombification and that Columbus spared her life by shooting above her head to scare her off. Arriving in Babylon, the group give up their weapons and find Little Rock and Berkeley. As Tallahassee departs, he sees a horde of T-800s drawn to the commune's fireworks and devises a plan to kill them: using exploding biodiesel, he tells the commune, armed with barricade shields, to corral the zombies off of a nearby skyscraper, with himself as the bait.  With the exploding biodiesel ineffective, the commune is overwhelmed until Nevada arrives in Albuquerque's truck, rescuing them. They take out several zombies, causing the vehicle to roll over. Escaping to the skyscraper, they corral the zombies off the roof. Tallahassee uses a construction crane hook to dangle out of reach, but a zombie seizes his leg as it falls. Using a gun previously gifted to her by Tallahassee, Little Rock shoots the zombie and rescues him. The group then reconcile: Wichita accepts Columbus' proposal, while Madison and Berkeley get together, as do Nevada and Tallahassee. The original quartet, including Nevada, then depart Babylon.   During the film's mid-credits fade back to 2009 via the start of the outbreak, Bill Murray witnesses Al Roker turn into a zombie during a promotional interview for a third Garfield film. He kills several zombies, including Grace Randolph and Lili Estefan and escapes. After the post-credits, an outtake is shown of Murray making Estefan break character by trying to cough up a hairball.   The rules   Continuing the rules from Zombieland, Columbus's list of 73 rules includes:  Flagstaff's commandments or rules for staying alive:  Tallahassee considers adding a rule of his own: "It takes a real man to drive a pink Cadillac"  Madison's rule for surviving Zombieland: "Mostly stay in the freezer."