Emily and Randall arrive at Randall's parents' beach house in a remote vacation town. Upon their arrival, they are pleased to see that the town looks deserted. When they enter the house, Emily and Randall go upstairs and have sex and then have a small disagreement. They soon learn that another couple is already staying at the beach house—Mitch and Jane Turner, old friends of Randall's father. Jane is terminally ill, and Mitch hopes to give her one last happy vacation. Because the house has plenty of room, both couples decide to stay.  After dinner, Randall suggests they all share some edible marijuana which he brought with him, to which Jane and Mitch agree. While high, Mitch notices the strange water texture, and they all see glowing microbes covering the beach and trees. Jane leaves to see it up close but starts coughing after a while and gets disoriented when a strong fog starts to form around the area. After breathing in the fog, Emily becomes disoriented as well and passes out. She awakens to a sick Jane throwing up and goes to sleep. When she wakes up the next day, she finds a catatonic Jane sitting in the kitchen, covered in skin lesions, and Mitch missing.  Randall and Emily decide to go to the beach, which they are surprised to find is completely empty. After a while, Randall gets sick to his stomach and rushes back to the house. In the bathroom, he sees the water from the sink forming strange patterns; then, hearing Jane moan, he goes to help her. On the beach, Mitch suddenly appears. He muses that something about the area feels off, then tells Emily he is going for a swim; instead, he drowns himself. Panicked Emily steps on a washed up jellyfish. It stings her and Emily sees a worm-like creature crawling in an open wound. She manages to crawl up to the house and remove the worm. She finds a sickened Randall being pursued by Jane, who has milky white eyes and strange fluid leaking from her mouth. Managing to lock Jane in the house, Randall and Emily escape into the slowly thickening fog.  By nightfall, the fog covers the area and Randall has become even sicker. Emily discovers a police car with a radio inside, and she manages to contact someone. The person on the other end asks if "they have been exposed" and tells them to barricade themselves and to not breathe in the fog. They break into a house for shelter. They find that the water is now a completely different texture. When Emily turns on the TV she finds an Emergency Alert System on every channel and a radio broadcast reveals that the microbes, which were preserved in underwater rocks, had been released by global warming. Emily suggests they wait until morning, but Randall is scared of dying. Emily goes into the basement, finds oxygen tanks for scuba diving, and concludes they can use them to breathe in safe air. She also discovers a horribly mutated person feeding on a corpse.  Upstairs, she discovers Randall has succumbed to the infection and kills him. Finding the keys to a car, she drives away but becomes disoriented in the fog and crashes into a tree. She stumbles from the car into a puddle and lies there, breathing in the fog and hallucinating about the microbes in the water. The next morning, she lies on the beach, telling herself not to be scared as the infection completes its course. A wave engulfs her body, dragging her out to sea.