Four couples, who are also best friends since college, converge in a house in the mountains for a week-long retreat. This ritual of sorts aims to help them work out their marital problems and ask the question "Why did I get married?". Though the couples have committed to being physically present for the week, some of them have not been emotionally present in their respective marriages for quite some time. The week is not planned out in a well-programmed sequence, so the events unfold somewhat spontaneously, beginning with their "adventures" in getting up to the mountain retreat.   The first couple, attorney Dianne (Leal) and pediatrician Terry (Perry), drive up together and argue most of the way because Dianne refuses to stop working. She takes calls on her phone instead of talking with Terry.  The second couple, hair salon owner Angela (Smith) and former pro football player Marcus (White), take the train. Angela constantly argues with Marcus and anyone who dares to interrupt them.  The third couple is housewife Sheila (Scott) and entrepreneur Mike (Jones). Sheila has to get off the plane because of her weight and the requirement to purchase two seats while Mike continues flirting on the flight with Sheila's single friend, Trina (Boutte).  The fourth couple, psychologist Patricia (Jackson) and architect Gavin (Yoba), arrive by limo cab. Their journey is not documented. However, right before they leave to go to the retreat, Gavin shows up to pick up Patricia at a lecture she was giving (she is the author of a book called "Why Did I Get Married?") and artlessly dodges a question about their own marriage.  Dianne falls asleep not long after arriving with her BlackBerry close by hand. When her secretary calls while she is asleep, Terry tells her not to call them while they are on their vacation. When Patricia arrives, she goes up to wake Dianne while the men bond over the wine that Terry has poured for his wife. The sound of arguing signals the arrival of Angela and Marcus. When Mike arrives without Sheila, the other wives berate him and Trina for having left Shelia to drive alone. Mike shows complete disregard for his wife and disparages her weight. Her friends try to reach Sheila by phone but get her voice mail only.  Sheila is persistent in getting to the retreat because she wants to make her marriage work. Providence leads her to Sheriff Troy Jackson (Rucker)'s office. Due to the weather, the roads have been closed for the night and she has no choice but to spend the night in the office. That same night, Mike is caught by Angela going to Trina's bedroom. Sheila arrives at the retreat house the following morning with Troy in tow. She introduces Troy to the others and tells them she has invited him to breakfast. Troy becomes a threat to Mike, not because of Sheila, but because of Trina. Breakfast is a noisy affair with the arguing couples and Angela insulting Trina, whom she instantly disliked.  Throughout the few days spent on retreat, there are spontaneous revelations. The infidelity of Marcus and Mike leads to a discussion by the men of the 80/20 rule. According to this rule, most men get 80% of what they need from a marriage, yet they tend to go after the 20% that someone outside can provide for them because it appears to be more to them when it really isn't.  During a heated argument at dinner, Angela exposes Mike and Trina's affair. In turn, Mike reveals the other couples' hidden secrets: Marcus had contracted VD after he cheated on Angela, Dianne had her tubes tied after her daughter was born without Terry's knowledge and withheld disclosing her disinterest in having another baby, Terry had gotten a DNA test on him and Diane’s daughter because he was unsure he was the father, and Gavin had criticized Patricia for not protecting their young son in a fatal car accident a year prior. Angela admits giving Marcus the STD from her own cheating. Enraged, he tries choking her while the others pull him away. Mike then tells Sheila he wants a divorce, and she smashes a wine bottle over his head, knocking him out.  All the couples suddenly decide they can't stay in the house any longer. Sheila checks into a local hotel to recover from her divorce and discovers that Mike had drained her bank account. She is in a depression when Troy goes to visit her. He takes her up to a mountain where she cries and mourns the loss of her love and the only life she knew.  The other couples head back home. Patricia and Gavin are barely speaking to each other after the revelation of the latter calling the former "stupid" for not protecting their son during the time of the accident. Eventually, she breaks down emotionally and confesses that she was only trying to be perfect. They both agree to face the situation and soon reconcile. Angela and Marcus are still fighting, especially when Marcus' ex-girlfriend and baby mama, Keisha (Whitehead), shows up at Angela's salon, and disrespects her. This happens again when the couple arrives at her house for the kids. Marcus finally stands up to both women and frightens Angela into realizing she is wrecking their life with her constant arguing by disappearing for a few days. On Terry's birthday at their home, Dianne accuses Terry of wanting her to be a housewife, while he calls her out for neglecting him and their daughter. He moves out as he feels Dianne constantly prioritizes her career over them. Patricia meets up with Dianne and Angela, moping over their husbands, and gives them good counseling about the need to get back on track: making a list of both the good and bad things their husbands have done.  In the mountains, Sheila settles into her new life with a new job at the general store owned by Troy's father. The two bond while she gradually realizes her self-worth. Angela cooks dinner for Marcus after finishing with her list. Although he suspects she is trying to poison him at first, they reunite and set new conditions. Dianne goes to see Terry and begs him to come back home after crying over her list. He plays with her head a little to get back at her, but they eventually reconcile as well.  Some time later, the couples converge at a gala celebration for an award recently received by Patricia. She, Dianne, and Angela are elated when Sheila arrives, re-introduces Troy as her new husband, and says that she has successfully lost weight with his help. Troy meets up with the husbands, who are also gladly surprised by the news of his and Sheila's marriage. Although Mike is still with Trina, he tries to weasel his way back into his ex-wife's good graces, but she turns him down, telling him to go enjoy Trina. Patricia encloses a confession of her love for Gavin and a message of loving, respecting, and trusting God in her acceptance speech.