Living in Manhattan, Tom is a cook who has difficulty keeping a steady job. His wife, Sofia, is an attorney. When their first child is born, they agree that she will be a full-time mom and he will work hard to get promoted.  When Tom gets fired after defending his friend Paco, he takes a job in Ohio working at the ad agency where his father-in-law is the assistant director. Assigned to report to Chip, who is a strict and hard-working paraplegic and Sofia's ex-boyfriend from high school. Chip is still obsessed with her, so he conspires to make Tom's work life miserable. As Tom's frustrations mount, he seems to sway Sofia to his side.  Tom begins to suspect that Chip isn't handicapped at all and goes through his desk. He finds a photo of him playing tennis and rushes to his in-laws' house to see his wife and show her the picture. He finds Chip having dinner with Sofia and her parents and holding his child. Tom tries to prove that Chip isn't actually paralyzed by dragging him up a flight of stairs and then throws him, expecting him to stand up to prevent falling.  Chip doesn't stand up (the photo actually being his late twin brother) and Tom is humiliated in front of his family. Later, he confronts and attacks him, where Chip reveals that he really can walk, but can't fight outside of his chair. Sitting back down, Chip beats him severely and revealing he plans to sleep with Sofia, to Tom's increased rage.  It's revealed that Paco had called Chip under the guise of being an ad agency boss in Barcelona, telling him he got a job and convincing him to fly to Spain. Excited by the news, Chip goes to Sofia and asks her to come with him. However, Tom accosts them both and convinces her not to go with him. Chip, angry that Sofia chose Tom over him, heartlessly mocks him, saying he "faked his orgasm" to Sofia before getting out of his chair and walking out.  While chastising them from outside, Chip is hit by a bus and ends up paralyzed from the waist down, crippling him for real. Tom and Sofia have moved out of Ohio and her dad is helping him start his own ad business. Now, the couple have switched positions, Tom becoming a stay-at-home dad while Sofia becomes a full-time lawyer again. During the credits Chip is shown being tossed out of the ad company in Spain, and later on Tom's friend sees Chip in the middle of the running of the bulls on TV.