David "Dave" Seville is injured when a cardboard cutout of Alvin sends him flying across the stage during a charity benefit concert in Paris. While he recovers in a French hospital, Dave asks his aunt, Jackie, to look after the Chipmunks, Alvin, Simon, and Theodore. Arrangements are also made for them to attend West Eastman High School. After she also has an accident at the airport, the Chipmunks are left in the care of Toby, Jackie's grandson and Dave's cousin.  Former JETT Records chief executive Ian Hawke, who is broke and destitute, lives in the company's basement. Three singing female chipmunks, Brittany, Jeanette, and Eleanor, A.K.A. the Chipettes, emerge from a FedEx package. Ian recruits them to resurrect his career.  While at school, two jealous jocks, Ryan and Xander, bully the Chipmunks by chasing them around, putting Simon's head in a toilet and poking at Theodore's backside. The group are summoned to the principal's office after attacking the jocks. The principal, Dr. Rubin, a fan who saw them in Denver, Colorado, enlists their help to raise money for the school's music program by participating in a contest. Ian is shocked to find the Chipmunks on the front page of his newspaper. After he reads a story about them representing the school, he also enrolls the Chipettes there.  When the Chipmunks meet the Chipettes, both groups are smitten with each other. However, Brittany reminds the girls that Ian said they betrayed him and are untrustworthy, unaware of his true colors. Alvin and the boys struggle to make it through a rehearsal because of their new crushes. Ian smugly walks in and introduces his new stars, the Chipettes. The boys are shocked to see the girls are working with him, and a rivalry emerges when Ian convinces Dr. Rubin to let the Chipettes compete in the Battle of the Bands. Rubin sets up a concert for the two groups to compete to represent the school.  Alvin becomes popular with the jocks and joins the football team, not realizing the next game is during the concert. At the concert, Theodore and Simon tell the fans that Alvin failed to show up and they cannot perform, so the Chipettes win by default. Alvin arrives afterwards to an empty auditorium, and Brittany calls him out for his lack of responsibility.   Alvin returns home and unsuccessfully tries apologizing to his brothers. Theodore runs away to the Los Angeles Zoo the next day to live with a meerkat family, only to find that a wedge-tailed eagle has moved into their exhibit. Alvin and Simon save him from the eagle, and the three escape alive.  Soon, the Chipettes soon learn that they are to perform as an opening act for a Britney Spears concert on the same night as the school contest. Ian convinces them to call off the battle and perform at the concert, but refuses to give the same credit to Jeanette and Eleanor that he gives Brittany, who demands that they all perform together or not at all, until Ian threatens to send them to a barbecue restaurant unless they perform.  Before the Battle of the Bands, Alvin receives a distressed phone call from the Chipettes, who tell him that Ian has locked them in a cage. He goes on to rescue them with a mini motorcycle while Simon tells Jeanette how to pick the lock over the phone. Simon and Theodore are on the verge of going out to perform just by themselves until the others arrive just in time to perform. The Chipmunks and the Chipettes perform together for the first time and win the money for the music program. Dave, who had left the hospital upon learning that Toby was looking after the Chipmunks, returns during the contest, happy to see the Chipmunks again, and allows the Chipettes to stay with them.   Meanwhile, Ian attempts to imitate the Chipettes at the Staples Centre, only to get booed at and for security guards to eject him from the arena and throw him in a dumpster (after the credits have finished). Also, Ryan, Xander, and Jeremy have to scrape the gum off from under the gymnasium bleachers as punishment for harassing the Chipmunks and making Alvin miss the sing-off by bribing him into their football team.