Leo works for Next Day Air (NDA), a package delivery company, where his mother happens to be his boss, but is at risk of getting fired for any more mistakes. While delivering a package addressed to Jesus in apartment 303, Leo accidentally delivers it to apartment 302.  Before Leo can leave Jesus asks if Leo has the package and gets worried when he is empty-handed.  Guch and Brody, two inept criminals, open the package and find ten bricks of cocaine hidden in a clay pot.  Brody remembers that his cousin, Shavoo, has cut cocaine before.  Shavoo and his partner, Buddy, come to Guch's apartment and settle on $15,000 a brick.  Bodega, Jesus's boss and original sender of the package, calls to confirm the package was delivered.  Jesus tells Bodega it was not delivered even though the tracking information says otherwise.  Jesus is concerned that Bodega is going to kill him and assumes that Leo stole the package.  While searching Jesus tells Chita that his previous boss was killed because of a similar situation.  Jesus and Chita find Eric, another employee of NDA, who they hold at gunpoint and steal his watch.  Finally realizing that it is not Leo they continue their search.  Shavoo has trouble getting his money from storage because he was robbed by the front desk clerk. He interrogates the clerk and finds the storage garage where his money and supplies are. Shavoo and Buddy lock the clerk and his accomplice inside a garage, bound and gagged with duct tape.  Bodega surprises Jesus in Philadelphia, to his dismay, and they search for Leo together. Jesus tortures Leo but he can't remember anything. Back at the apartments, Leo is walking down the hallway and finally remembers he delivered it to 302. Bodega forces Leo to request the package back while Guch is inside counting the money. Brody informs Leo that he sent the package back to NDA headquarters.  Bodega realizes something strange is going on and forces his way into the apartment. Everyone has their guns drawn, and Guch takes the first shot at Jesus, triggering an intense shootout. Guch, Brody, and Bodega are killed, while Rhino, Bodega's enforcer, stabs Buddy to death before being killed by Shavoo, who was injured by a shotgun blast from Rhino. Afterward, Shavoo limps away, nearly dead; Leo, completely uninjured, jumps up and leaves with the money and a shotgun, which he uses to scare Chita and some tenants. Chita comes to check on Jesus, who is still alive, but wounded. Luckily, he is saved by the watch he took from Eric earlier. Jesus and Chita walk away with the cocaine as sirens can be heard in the background. Later, Hassie, Guch and Brody's roommate who mostly sleeps on the couch, is seen coming out of the bathroom, having missed the entire incident.