Calvin (Ice Cube) loves Chicago, his hometown and the place where he has been running his barbershop business in addition to supporting his family. Unfortunately the city has become plagued by gang violence and criminal activity as of late, and tensions have begun to rise, especially in Calvin's neighborhood.  Eddie (Cedric The Entertainer) comes running into the barbershop frightened because he claims to have made a comment at some thugs over their pants sagging. Eddie gets Calvin panicked as the door starts banging, but it's really just a delivery man bringing Eddie his breakfast, to Calvin's annoyance.  Calvin and Angie (Regina Hall) now run the barbershop. It has a separate section for women to work, with new recruits Bree (Margot Bingham) and Draya (Minaj). On the men's side are Jerrod (Lamorne Morris), Raja (Utkarsh Ambudkar), and Rashad (Common), new husband of Terri (Eve). Isaac (Troy Garity) and Jimmy (Sean Patrick Thomas) no longer work there, but still keep in touch as customers. JD (Anderson), the estranged cousin of former barber Ricky, has given up a life of crime and now runs a food truck business.  However, Calvin openly lies about what he does with the barbershop proceeds, claiming that he donates the money to charity. In truth, he and his overbearing grandmother (Auntie Fee) keep the money for themselves.   The shop also has a boy named Anthony Clark (Torion Sellers) working there while he puts his focus on school. Rashad's son Kenny (Diallo Thompson) has been hanging out with Calvin's son Jalen (Michael Rainey, Jr.). The boys come in one morning before school, and Calvin catches Kenny trying to swipe two Snickers bars.  Outside members of the Gangster Disciples pull up and try to steal the boys' sneakers, until the Vice Lords from the area appear and tell the other gang to step off. The Vice Lords leader, Yummy (Tyga) is friendly with the boys, assuming that they are willing to join his gang, and hands each boy a $100 bill.  The men and women of the barbershop converse on the subject of modern women, with Bree arguing that good women are always losing to the "hoes," and that men complain about women having fake body parts but still lust after those same women. Another topic of discussion is racism against black people, which Raja disagrees with on the basis that the country has a black President, to which Rashad counters that Obama, a former Chicago resident, has done nothing when news  involving murdered black children have been all over the media. Still, Raja insists that there has never been a better time to be a black person.  Calvin has recently been talking to a smooth-talking businessman called One-Stop (J. B. Smoove) about taking the barbershop business from the south side to the north side to avoid the dangers in the streets. Only Calvin's wife Jennifer (Jazsmin Lewis) is aware of this, and she's only considering for Jalen's sake.  A regular client, Jay (Renell Gibbs), enters for an appointment with Draya, but another man, Marquis (Jamal Woolard), shows up and clearly has a beef with Jay. The two men nearly fight in the shop as it is revealed they are both "shot callers" from rival gangs, until Calvin and Rashad intervene.  Jalen and Kenny get in trouble at school after being involved in a fight with the gang from earlier that morning. Jalen is unharmed but Kenny has a bruise under his eye. It pushes Calvin to consider putting his son in Catholic school, and also makes him trust Kenny even less, to the point where he confronts Rashad and tells him their sons shouldn't be hanging out so much. Things get more serious when Jennifer goes through her son's dresser drawers and finds gang paraphernalia.  With trouble going on in the neighborhood, Jimmy stops by and says there is an enclosure with heavy police presence. The members of the shop band together to organize a forum that night with the community to set up a ceasefire, along with free haircuts to anyone that passes by.  Outside the shop, Terri becomes suspicious of Draya for being flirty and close to Rashad. He offers to take Draya home one evening on his way to pick up his daughter. Draya invites Rashad up to her apartment to talk but Rashad knows what's up, even if she denies it being sexual and declines her offer.  The barbershop team set up for Jay and Marquis to arrive at the same time so they can get involved in the ceasefire. After a bit of tension and another near-altercation, both men agree to the ceasefire out of respect for Calvin. Over the weekend, the ceasefire begins. Jerrod and Raja put the word out on Twitter for people to come to the barbershop. A large number of people show up, and things appear to be going smoothly.  While at the barbershop, Rashad goes in the supply room in the back of the shop to grab some items, and Draya does as well. He apologizes for misinterpreting her motives from the other night. She forgives him but then tries to kiss him. Terri enters and heads into the back, looking for Rashad. She catches Rashad and Draya both hiding in the supply closet after he ignored her calling his name, leading her to believe they were hooking up. Terri attempts to fight Draya, chasing her to the front of the shop, however Calvin and others stop her. Terri storms out and Rashad follows to try and explain himself, but she doesn't believe or trust him.  As the shop celebrates a day of peace, Officer Terrence (Timon Kyle Durett) stops by to announce the tragic news that Anthony was shot to death on his way home from the library. Understandably devastated, Calvin gives up on the ceasefire and loses hope that they can make a difference in the neighborhood. The tension leads to Rashad revealing Calvin's intentions to move the shop to the north side of the city (after overhearing his conversation on a phone call) which infuriates Angie, since Calvin kept his plans from her.  Calvin storms out of the shop and goes to the bar, with Eddie joining him. He tries to assure Calvin that although Anthony's death was a tragic loss, they still may have prevented even more gunshot deaths. That inspires Calvin to return to his shop and apologize, while also re-starting the ceasefire. Almost immediately the shop gets a visit from Anthony Davis, which brings more attention to the shop.  By evening the shop has even more business including media coverage, as well as becoming a trending topic on Twitter. JD brings his food truck and racks up some nice business as well, until his lies catch up to him and is guilt-tripped into giving up a substantial amount of his earnings to a real charity. Terri returns to the shop and sees Rashad. She apologizes for accusing him of adultery and they reconcile.  Kenny runs into the shop and tells Calvin that Jalen is at the park ready for a gang initiation, from which Kenny had priviously backed out. Calvin rushes to the park and Jalen is seen approaching Yummy about the initiation. When Calvin gets there, the gang has left, but Jalen stayed behind. Without a word he joins his father.  In the morning, the ceasefire comes to an end and the shop celebrates. Everyone begins to go home. Bree and Jerrod walk together, and they admit they have feelings for each other. They set up a dinner date for the next night. Draya later visits Terri and apologizes for coming onto Rashad, saying that she feels that Terri has her life figured out while Draya doesn't. Terri forgives her and Draya offers a proposition for the couple.  Jalen visits his dad at the shop asking him to cut his hair. Calvin obliges and cuts off his dreads. They reaffirm they love each other and Calvin tells Jalen to sweep the floor. Calvin says that he still loves his city, and he never gave up on it, since it had never given up on him. Father and son join Jennifer, Rashad, Terri and the kids.  During the closing credits, the shop gets an unexpected visit from President Obama (Reggie Brown). Eddie volunteers to give the man a haircut after earlier claiming to have cut his hair years ago. Visibly nervous, Eddie messes up and accidentally shaves a good part on the back of the President's head.