Architect-turned-agoraphobe Bernadette Fox is settled down with her husband Elgie Branch and their 15-year-old daughter Bee in a dilapidated former schoolhouse in Seattle. After an award-winning house Bernadette constructed was demolished, she developed severe depression and became reclusive. Despite her close relationship with Bee, Bernadette seldom leaves home and fears human interaction, including with the other parents at Bee's school and especially their neighbor, Audrey Griffin.  Bee requests a family trip to Antarctica as reward for good grades, and her parents reluctantly agree. As the trip approaches, Bernadette’s behavior becomes increasingly odd. She considers using various prescription drugs to control her worsening anxiety and insomnia. Audrey continually implores Bernadette to remove an invasive blackberry plant from the hillside above her house; when Bernadette complies, the hillside collapses into Audrey's garden and house during a rainstorm. Elgie claims Bernadette knew that the hill would collapse without the blackberries to hold it in place. Audrey later accuses Bernadette of driving over her foot, escalating the tension between them.  One day, Bernadette returns home to find Elgie, his assistant, psychiatrist Dr. Kurtz, and FBI Agent Strang at her home for an intervention. They reveal that Manjula, Bernadette's “personal assistant” in India with whom she has shared all of her personal and financial information, is actually a front for a Russian criminal organization that the FBI has been watching. Dr. Kurtz and Elgie want to commit Bernadette to a psychiatric hospital while Elgie and Bee go to Antarctica. Feeling ambushed and misunderstood, Bernadette sneaks out of the house.  Bernadette hides at Audrey's, who makes amends with her and helps her fly to Antarctica alone. Elgie and Bee pursue her after Agent Strang tells them that the Russian criminals, who were on their way to Seattle to defraud Bernadette while she and her family were away, have been arrested and are no longer a threat.  In Antarctica, Bernadette befriends Becky, a researcher who tells her the research station at the South Pole must be completely rebuilt and needs an architect. Bernadette sneaks off her cruise ship and into Palmer Station, and convinces the team leader to give her a spot on the next convoy to the South Pole.  Meanwhile, Elgie realizes that he has failed Bernadette by not being more supportive of her creativity. He and Bee catch up with Bernadette at Palmer Station and, realizing that her passion for architecture has been reignited, give her their blessing to spend five weeks at the Pole.