Jack Cunningham is an alcoholic ironworker who is separated from his wife, Angela. While at Thanksgiving dinner with his family, they express concern about his habits.  The next day, Jack receives a call from Father Devine at his former Catholic high school, Bishop Hayes. He asks him to coach the basketball team, as the previous coach has had a heart attack. Introduced to assistant coach and algebra teacher Dan and the team members, Jack learns that the school hasn't been in the playoffs since he was a student. Interest has waned, and now there are only six varsity players.  Initially annoyed by Jack's stricter practices and attitude, they soon grow to respect him. The team improves and Jack begins to bond with them. His drinking decreases, and he spends more time with his family and friends. Jack and Angela attend a birthday party together for David, the son of their friend Miguel. It is revealed that their son Michael had died from cancer. David and Michael met in the hospital, and David is now in remission.  Affected by the birthday party and memories of his son, Jack protests a call at a game, which results in him being ejected. Afterwards, Jack reveals to a player that his father only paid attention to him due to his basketball talent. As a result, Jack turned down a full athletic scholarship to the basketball program at the University of Kansas, and hasn't played since.  The team's final game of the season is a rematch with Memorial, the top-ranked team. Bishop Hayes completes the victory to clinch a playoff berth. Later, Angela calls Jack to tell him David has been hospitalized. There, when they overhear that David's cancer has returned, Jack is disturbed upon seeing their grief. He leaves the hospital and begins drinking again.  The following morning, Jack arrives late and drunk to practice, Dan informs Father Devine who fires Jack as he says he can't trust him with the team. This causes Jack to spiral further. One night, while driving drunk with a woman he met at a bar, Jack rear-ends a boat hitched to a parked car. She flees, telling him to enter her house through the back, but he enters the wrong house and is confronted by its occupant. Jack attempts to leave before the police arrive, but in the scuffle he falls and is knocked unconscious.  Awakening in the hospital, Jack is met by his sister, who demands that he get help for his alcoholism. He starts psychotherapy and begins opening up about his son's death. He meets with Angela and apologizes for his past mistakes. The team dedicates their first playoff game to Jack. Meanwhile, at an outdoor court, he picks up a basketball and practices shooting.