Russell is sixteen-years-old and is going on dates with girls. But he’s recently started falling for football quarterback Kevin. When Min stumbles across Russell and Kevin kissing for the first time during a school trip, she decides to invite Russell to an LGBT support group in the school. This group meets in a classroom regularly and masquerades as a Geography Club. The club consists of a small number of students including Min and Therese who tell everyone that they are just really good friends when in reality this is not the case. There is also Ike who can’t quite figure out who he really is.  Russell gets invited to a meal at Kevin’s parents house after a great football match. The meal is awkward due to the fathers questioning and the guys feelings for each other. Meanwhile, Russell’s best mate Gunnar gets Kevin to go on a trip with some girls. He’s upset that they aren’t as close as they were and knows he’s acting weird. Whilst they are hanging out, the girls try to come on to Russell. He leaves and walks home by himself messaging Kevin asking for a lift home, confiding in his worries.  As the weeks go by the Geography Club members grow closer supporting one another. The group chastises Russell when he bullies one of the other club members due to peer pressure from classmates. Rumors have spread that Russell is a “homo” and he’s been kicked off the football team. Min suggests that the club finally go public which means they will all be outed. Kevin meets Russell to apologize for him being kicked off the team. Russell tells Kevin he should join the Geography Club but Kevin freaks out saying he can’t. He wants to stay in the closet, play football and be ‘normal’. Russell gives Kevin an ultimatum. Either turn up tomorrow at the club or they should go their separate ways.  Gunnar and Russell make amends and the club go public welcoming new people. Kevin watches on from a distance not feeling able to attend. Russell stands up and welcomes students to the first ever Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) meeting.