In a 1979 flashback, young Donna Sheridan graduates from Oxford's New College with Rosie and Tanya ("When I Kissed the Teacher"), and dreams of the Greek island Kalokairi. Her mother Ruby is a famous singer, but they have a strained relationship, she is always away on tour so does not attend the graduation. Fed up with her mother's constant absence and determined to spend her life making memories, Donna travels to Kalokairi to find her destiny.  In the present, Sophie is in Kalokairi preparing the grand reopening of the Hotel Bella Donna, in honour of her recently deceased mother, who died of cancer. Harry and Bill can't attend due to overseas obligations and Sophie also feels estranged from Sky, who has been offered a job in NYC ("One of Us").  In Paris, Donna meets the sweet, awkward Harry Bright, who instantly falls in love with her ("Waterloo"). They spend the night together, but Donna leaves early for Greece. Missing her boat to Kalokairi, Bill Anderson gives her a lift in his sailboat, where they dance and flirt ("Why Did It Have to Be Me?"). On the way, they help stranded fisherman Alexio back to shore in time to save the love of his life from marrying another. Unbeknownst to Donna, Harry has followed her to Greece, however he arrives too late and she sails off with Bill.  In the present, Rosie and Tanya arrive and Sophie shows them the renovated hotel ("I Have a Dream"). This mirrors the past, when Donna explores the abandoned farmhouse that would eventually become the hotel. A heavy storm then breaks out and Donna discovers a trapped horse and soothes it with the assistance of Sam Carmichael. In the present, a heavy storm both destroys the decorations and cuts off ferries to Kalokairi, to Sophie's dismay.  Sam, who lives in a cabin on the island, reassures Sophie that she can never disappoint her mother, unlike him. Before Sophie was born, Donna and Sam were enjoying a whirlwind romance ("The Name of the Game") which ended badly when she discovered he was engaged to another. Heartbroken, Donna breaks it off and tearfully watches him leave the island ("Knowing Me, Knowing You"), while the present Sam reassures Sophie how important she was to her.  Following Sam's departure, Donna is visited by Tanya and Rosie, who cheer her up by performing as Donna and the Dynamos ("Mamma Mia"). Bill returns to the island, and she joins him on his boat, much to the chagrin of Rosie who fell for Bill. While they are gone, Sam returns, having ended his engagement for Donna, but is saddened to hear she is with another.   Donna discovers she is pregnant but has no idea which one of her three recent lovers is the father. Bill's great-aunt Sofia overhears Donna's wish to stay on the island and reveals she owns the abandoned farmhouse where she has been staying. Donna happily accepts her offer to stay there, where she later gives birth to Sophie.  In the present, Sophie tells Rosie and Tanya about her problems with Sky, and Rosie explains how she and Bill broke up ("Angel Eyes"). Meanwhile, Bill, Harry, and Sky leave their ventures abroad to support Sophie but are told there are no boats to Kalokairi.   However, Alexio recognises Bill so offers the trio safe boat passage to the island as gratitude for saving his relationship. Bill convinces everyone to join them for the Kalokairi party. When the guests arrive ("Dancing Queen"), Bill and Rosie soon reunite over their mutual grief over Donna's death, and Sophie tells Sky she is pregnant and never feeling closer to her mother.  The celebration is suddenly disrupted when Ruby arrives, despite not being invited by Sophie. Ruby explains that Sky tracked her down, and she wants to build a relationship with her granddaughter. Sophie then performs with the Dynamos in honour of Donna ("I've Been Waiting for You"). Ruby is proud, and expresses slight but sincere grief over her daughter's death. Then it is revealed that the hotel manager, Señor Fernando Cienfuegos, is Ruby's long-lost lover from 1959, so they are joyously reunited ("Fernando").  Nine months later, Sophie gives birth to baby boy Donny. At the christening, Donna's ghost proudly watches, and they have a final moment before Donna fully passes on ("My Love, My Life"). The end credits show all the characters, including Donna and the younger cast, at a party at Hotel Bella Donna ("Super Trouper").