Jake Taylor, a high school student living in San Diego, California, attends the funeral of his ex-best friend Roger Dawson. One day while the two were kids, Roger pushed Jake out of the way of a car, saving him but crippling himself forever. During their freshmen year of high school, a freshman cheerleader named Amy Briggs invites Jake, now part of the school's basketball team, to a party that Roger was not invited to. Soon enough, Jake joins a new popular group of friends, begins dating Amy, and becomes the star of the basketball team. Jake grew further away from Roger, who became more of a loner due to his condition. Three years later in their senior year, Roger enters the school with a gun and began to shoot. Despite Jake's attempt to stop him, Roger shoots himself and dies from his injuries, prompting Jake to wonder if he could have saved him by being a better friend.  After the final basketball game of his senior year, Jake meets Chris Vaughn, a youth pastor, who had spoken at Roger's funeral. Jake goes to a party that is broken up by the police and is the last to sneak out of the house. Since Amy borrowed his truck, Jake decides to call the number on the business card Chris gave him. On the ride home, Chris reveals that Roger had come to church the Sunday before he killed himself.  Jake continues to struggle in dealing with Roger's death, frequently attending church and drawing concern from Amy because of his behavior. He discovers Roger's social networking page and sees that he openly discussed his hopelessness. Amy joins Jake at church the following Sunday, but leaves during the service, feeling judged. Jake confronts the group about their shallow faith and failure to be inclusive and inviting, and a girl named Andrea suggests that they all have lunch together at school as a solution.  For the next few weeks, they all meet at lunch every day. Slowly, Jake becomes shunned by all of his old friends, including Amy. Jake invites Jonny, a boy who had been mocked by a fake invitation to a party, to join them, which he accepts. Jake starts to emerge from the darkness he felt following Roger's death as he, Jonny, and Andrea become friends.  After some time, Jonny asks Jake for advice on asking Andrea on a date. The date ends when Jonny accidentally drops his ice cream in her lap, causing her to draw back. Meanwhile, Jake discovers that Amy is pregnant with his baby and doesn't want to keep the child. He then discovers that his parents are about to divorce after his father had an affair. The next day at school, Jonny wants help from Jake on what to do with Andrea; Jake ultimately brushes aside his concerns, effectively humiliating him in front of his peers.  When Danny, the pastor's son, overhears Jake and Chris talking about Amy's pregnancy, he posts drawings all over the school announcing the news. In the weeks that follow, Jake stops hanging out with his old friends for good and spends more time with his new friends. He gives up his dream about going to college and talks to Amy, who has decided to keep the baby. Having been shunned by all her old friends at school, she begins spending time with Andrea and the other girls from the church.  Minutes later, students are evacuated from the school due to a bomb threat. Danny steps forward and tells the police he thinks it was Jonny. After a search of his locker, they ask Jonny for his phone, which he doesn't have because Danny took it. The police handcuff Jonny and walk him through the crowd of the entire student body. Jake realizes that Jonny didn't make the threats when he calls Jonny's phone and sees Danny answer it. With Amy distracting the teachers that guard the exit, Jake runs past them to the road and steps in front of the police car, preventing Jonny from a drug overdose. Danny is then caught by the police as Chris becomes the new pastor in his place.  Jake's life soon begins to look up. His daughter is placed in open adoption, and Amy gets back together with him. His friends and family gather to see him off to Louisville for college, and his dad comes along with him so they can talk. Jonny gives Jake a note to read on the way there stating that he actually did feel like Roger and had considered taking his life, as well. He stated that if Jake had not invited him for lunch that day, he did not know where he would be at the moment. At that point, Jake and his father resume the trip to Louisville.