The family of Harlan Thrombey, a wealthy mystery novelist, attends his 85th birthday party at his Massachusetts mansion. The next morning, Harlan's housekeeper, Fran, discovers him dead with a slit throat. The police believe Harlan died by suicide, but private detective Benoit Blanc is anonymously hired to investigate. Blanc learns that Harlan had strained relationships with his family members, giving several of them possible motives for murder.  Unknown to Blanc, Harlan's nurse, Marta Cabrera, believes she injected Harlan with a lethal dose of morphine after confusing it with ketorolac the night after the party. When she could not find the antidote for the overdose, Harlan stopped Marta from phoning for help and, in order to protect Marta's undocumented family from deportation, used his skill at murder plots to concoct a complicated scenario to exonerate Marta of his death. Harlan instructed Marta in detail to create a false alibi and then slit his own throat.  Marta cannot lie without vomiting, so she gives accurate but incomplete answers when questioned. She agrees to assist Blanc's investigation and conceals evidence incriminating her. At the reading of Harlan's will, Marta is bequeathed his entire fortune, stunning and enraging the Thrombeys. Harlan's grandson Ransom helps Marta escape the family, but manipulates her into confessing to him. He offers help in exchange for a portion of her inheritance. Meanwhile, the remaining Thrombeys try to persuade and threaten Marta into renouncing the inheritance, to no avail.  Marta receives a blackmail note containing a partial photocopy of Harlan's toxicology report. She and Ransom drive to the medical examiner's office but find it burned down. Marta receives an email proposing a rendezvous with the blackmailer. Blanc and the police spot them, and after a brief car chase, Ransom is arrested. At the rendezvous, Marta finds Fran—the blackmailer—drugged. Marta performs CPR and calls an ambulance. She confesses to Blanc, though Ransom has already implicated her, and she decides to admit to causing Harlan's death, which would invalidate the bequest under the slayer rule.  Back at the mansion, Marta finds Fran's copy of the full toxicology report, which shows Harlan had only trace amounts of morphine in his blood. Blanc reveals his deductions: that Harlan had told Ransom about his will, and that Ransom had then swapped Harlan's medicines to ensure that Marta would accidentally kill him and thus be ineligible to claim the inheritance. However, Marta actually gave Harlan the correct medication, subconsciously recognizing it, and only thought she had poisoned Harlan after reading the false label. As the death was reported as a suicide, Ransom anonymously hired Blanc to expose Marta. Fran saw Ransom tampering with the crime scene and sent him the blackmail note. After Ransom realized Marta was not responsible for Harlan's death, but Marta still thought she was, he forwarded the blackmail letter to Marta and burned down the medical examiner's office to destroy evidence of her innocence. He then overdosed Fran with morphine, intending for Marta to get caught with Fran's corpse.  The hospital calls; Marta relays that Fran survived and will implicate Ransom. Ransom scoffs that his lawyers will help him escape arson and attempted murder charges. Marta then vomits on him, revealing that she lied: Fran is dead. Realizing he has confessed to the murder, with the police recording the conversation, Ransom attacks Marta with a knife from Harlan's collection, which turns out to be a retractable stage knife. The police arrest him.  Blanc tells Marta he suspected early on that she played a part in Harlan's death, noting a drop of blood on her shoe. Blanc points out that Marta's innocence prevailed because she made ethical choices all along that frustrated Ransom's attempts to incriminate her. Had Harlan not prevented her from calling the medics, he would have survived, since he had been correctly given ketorolac due to Marta's good nursing instincts. Marta attempted to save Fran rather than let the woman she thought was blackmailing her die. As Ransom is taken into custody, Marta watches from the balcony of what is now her mansion, with the distressed Thrombeys gathered outside.