In the reefs near a group of French Polynesian islands in the South Pacific, Echo is a young and playful bottlenose dolphin who isn't like the rest of his pod. He believes he's just not ready to grow up, but his mother, Kumu, tries teaching him to find his own food. Just as they depart for their coral reef home, Echo's favorite neighbour, Mr. Mantis, a peacock mantis shrimp, is being disrupted by other sea creatures of his pile of coral.  One night while the rest of the pod is asleep, Echo is surprised to be greeted by a female mother humpback whale named Mo'orea, who has traveled miles to Echo's homes to find a male partner to help protect her newborn daughter, Fluke (who doesn't seem sure about Echo at first, but eventually accepts him as a friend). Kumu soon calls out for her son, and Echo bids farewell to the two whales. Kumu then grounds Echo for hanging out with the whales miles away, much to Echo's dismay. Many male humpback whales are about to set off to fight over Mo'orea and Fluke, but the largest one is more determined.  Mr. Mantis, meanwhile, is having his own problems trying to get his coral together and trying to get his fellow gardeners to work, but to his surprise, a school of green humphead parrotfish comes to the rescue to clean out the coral, while Mr. Mantis and his neighbors are confronted by a cuttlefish, who strikes a small crab trying to invade Mr. Mantis' home. Meanwhile, a pod of killer whales arrive on the island looking for prey; for Fluke's safety, Mo'orea makes contact with the male humpbacks, and they all set off for their rescue, just as the killer whales are about to charge for Fluke. The large male fends off the invaders, and wins over Mo'orea and Fluke's hearts.  As night falls, Echo and his pod are confronted by another pod of rival dolphins. The home team and rivals fight each other, while Echo swims off and is lost. Kumu and the rest of the pod spend hours looking for him. Echo, who has become lost in the dark sea, meets a sea turtle, and the two escape up to the surface for air. Echo survives the night, and is reunited with Kumu. Kumu starts to teach her son how to hunt fish, she uses her tail to make a mud ring to block the fish. Echo successfully copies the same, and he and the rest of the pod enjoy their meal of fish. Back on Coral Reef, Mr. Mantis is confronted by the Cuttlefish. Before it can catch him with its mouth, Echo comes to the rescue.  Echo has now learned the importance of how to survive the ocean, thanks to his mother. Mo'orea and Fluke begin a new life with the large male, who fathers Fluke, and Mr. Mantis continues to enjoy his pile of coral. Soon, Echo and Fluke become best friends and live a happy life together with their families.