J. D. Vance looks back on his childhood in Middletown, Ohio, raised by his mother Beverly and her parents from Jackson, Kentucky. In 1997, young J. D. and his older sister Lindsay struggle with their mother's drug addiction and unstable behavior.  After an argument while driving, Bev threatens to crash the car before attacking J. D., causing him to flee to a nearby house. Bev is nearly arrested after breaking through the door to drag J. D. away; he lies to protect her. Soon afterwards, Bev's father Papaw dies. She is later fired for her erratic behavior as well as stealing pills during work hours, causing her to have a violent breakdown in front of the entire neighborhood. After a string of boyfriends, Bev marries her new boss but is unable to detox.  J. D. often spends time with his grandmother, Bonnie "Mamaw" Vance, who struggles to keep her daughter in line. She reluctantly convinces J. D. to give his mother clean urine for a drug test to keep her job. Mamaw is later hospitalized with pneumonia while J. D.’s grades start to slip as he begins acting out with his new stepbrother and their friends. J. D. joins them in drinking, drugs, and vandalism, before they crash Mamaw's car. Lindsay informs Mamaw, who discharges herself from the hospital and takes in J. D. to live with her.  Stern but well-meaning, Mamaw attempts to  curb J. D.'s outbursts after he is caught shoplifting a graphing calculator for school, warning J. D. that someone will need to care for the family when she is gone, and that he has the choice to make something of himself. Realizing how much Mamaw is struggling to support them both, J. D. finds a job and begins to excel in school, later joining the United States Marine Corps. He returns home when Mamaw dies, before he serves in Iraq. After his tour, J. D. uses the G.I. Bill to attend college.  In 2011, an adult J. D. works three jobs to put himself through Yale Law School. He hopes to secure a summer internship in Washington D.C., with his girlfriend Usha, but Lindsay calls him with the news that Bev has overdosed on heroin. Driving home to Middletown, J. D. struggles to find a rehab facility for his mother, and is offered a last chance for a job interview the following morning. Overwhelmed, J. D. refuses Usha's offer to come help.  Bev refuses to return to rehab, causing her most recent boyfriend to throw Bev out of his apartment. With Lindsay raising her own family, J. D. takes Bev to a motel, but discovers her using heroin in the bathroom. Wrestling the needle away from Bev, J. D. urges her not to give up, and leaves his mother with Lindsay as he departs for New Haven. He calls Usha, who keeps him company on the phone as he drives through the night. Surprising her in the morning, J. D. arrives in time for his interview.  An epilogue reveals that J. D. graduated from Yale and published his memoir. He and Usha married and had children, moving to Ohio to be near his family, including Lindsay and Bev, who has been sober for 6 years.