While driving back from a Thanksgiving visit to Joanne's parents, she and her husband, Ray, argue about the state of their relationship. After returning from a restroom, their young daughter, Peri, loses her compact mirror, prompting the parents to look for it. While Ray is distracted, Peri gets startled by a dog on an abandoned construction site. Ray throws a rock to scare the dog, startling Peri, who falls into the pit. Ray, attempting to grab her, falls into the pit and hits his head, watching as a distressed Joanne climbs down, panicking over Peri. After his head clears, he gets to a hospital to have Peri's injured arm examined.  During the long admissions process, Ray and Joanne deny a request for Peri to be registered as an organ donor. Peri is examined by a doctor to be fractured; Dr. Berthram recommends a CAT scan in case of a head injury. Joanne accompanies her to the scanning facility in the lower basement as Ray falls asleep at the waiting area.  Ray awakens hours later with a sutured forehead and asks the hospital staff if he can see his wife and daughter, only to find that there's no such record. The only nurse present from the earlier shift says that Ray came alone and was treated for a head wound, distressing him. He gets pepper-sprayed and restrained by security, who sedate him and lock him in a room. He takes several adrenaline autoinjectors in a cabinet to counteract the sedative and escape to the parking lot. He waves down two police officers, who agree to investigate.  A doctor directs the two officers and Ray to the imaging lab on the third floor, not the basement. Ray becomes agitated as the nurse recalled what really happened with him. Dr. Berthram claims that Ray stated his intent to wait for his deceased first wife, confusing him. He asserts that Abby is dead, reminding Dr. Berthram of the conversation that Peri had with him.  The security officer reviews footage from a delayed security system; seeing no sign of Joanne and Peri. Ray, in a rage, remembers the cashier of the gas station as a witness, and the officers agree to track her down. Ray finds Peri's bloodstained scarf.  Dr. Jacobs questions Ray about the car accident that his file says he was treated for; it also mentions alcoholism, which Ray counters by citing he's been sober for eight years, though further questions the possibility that his alcoholism started this delusion, which he denies. Dr. Jacobs suggests that Ray accompany her and the police to the construction site, noting to Berthram that Joanne and Peri might be there, only for Ray to accuse the staff and police of covering up their disappearance.  A K-9 unit finds Peri's shattered compact mirror and a large pool of blood. Accusations continue from Ray when the police officers express disbelief. Dr. Jones asks him to recount what led to the accident— he fabricates memories of the incident, leading the police officers to arrest Ray for murder.  Ray, after seeing an opportunity for distraction, holds Dr. Jacobs at gunpoint, demanding her hospital keycard. After disarming and locking the officers in the bathroom, Ray drives to the hospital, remembering the car crash that killed a pregnant Abby. He takes to the elevator disguised as a doctor, pulling a security guard in and choking him.  At the basement, Ray sees nurses carrying human organs, and corpses that have been disembowelled. He finds Peri surrounded by surgeons preparing to harvest her organs, with a sedated Joanne nearby. Ray breaks them out of the hospital despite surgeons' protest, reaching the car, getting to the road back home.  Ray misperceives the reality of the situation; instead of saving Joanne and Peri, he took an unconscious patient. In reality, Ray startled Peri into a fatal fall into the pit; he suffered a severe head injury attempting to catch her. He then threw Joanne to the ground, impaling her head on a piece of rebar. His perception then splitting from reality, Ray put their bodies in the trunk and drives towards the sunrise.