Yuichi Ishii runs a rental family service called Family Romance, which serves as an agency to provide rental people to fill in as husbands, friends or other social roles. In doing so, they aim to fill the gaps in people’s lives helping them through challenging problems.  At the film’s outset, Yuichi is fulfilling a contract where he pretends to be the father of 12-year-old Mahiro. Mahiro, who has no memories of her father, is shy and uncertain of Yuichi but slowly begins to welcome him into her life. As Yuichi gains her confidence, Mahiro’s mother asks for information about what her daughter is thinking and saying. As Yuichi grows closer to Mahiro, he begins to guard her secrets and advocate for more freedoms for her.  In between his visits with Mahiro, Yuichi maintains his business. He accepts jobs and continues to fulfill them without any judgement towards his clients. While he completes his contracts, Yuichi considers the nature of artifice and reality after visiting a hotel staffed by robots. Yuichi confides in a friend that he has been having disturbing dreams of actors portraying samurai committing ritual suicide.  Eventually Yuichi travels with Mahiro’s mother to visit an oracle. During their trip, Mahiro’s mother remarks that she is glad to have him as a friend. This makes Yuichi uncomfortable and after their trip he visits a funeral home where he inquires about the possibility of having actors in coffins.  After another visit with Mahiro where she confesses that she loves him and wants to start spending weekends with him as father and daughter, Yuichi informs her mother that it has become too serious and they need to end their contract. Mahiro’s mother invites him to live with them, but Yuichi refuses and apologizes once more before leaving and suggesting that she rent a funeral for the imaginary father.  Yuichi visits his friend, who consoles him and tells him that he believes Family Romance offers a helpful and meaningful service. Yuichi seems unconvinced and wonders if his own family could be rented people who are faking their emotions for him.  The film closes with Yuichi returning to his own home. As he approaches he hears voices inside and a small set of children’s hands press against frosted glass on the front door. Yuichi hides from the unseen child and slumps next to the door.