Sam Nussbaum is a seemingly environmentally-conscientious vegetarian living an established life in Los Angeles with his fiancée, Steph. When Steph asks Sam why he has been estranged from his younger brother, Tom, for two years, he tells her that Tom resented him taking their dog, Angela, to college. Steph introduces herself to Tom - an aspiring artist financially dependent upon his parents - who she brings home, to surprise Sam. The brothers agree in secret to keep their animosity at bay until the wedding the following week, for Steph's sake.  While perusing Tom's fifth grade yearbook, Sam and Steph learn about Tom's sweetheart, Mary Barger. Sam and Steph suggest that Tom bring Mary to the wedding as a date, although there are three women in California sharing that name. Sam and Tom drive to Santa Monica, to meet the first incorrect woman, who Sam has an unpleasant interaction with, due to them gifting her flowers and her not wishing to return them. Despite Tom and Steph's protests, Sam insists that he and his brother travel to the second Mary in Palm Springs. At the roller rink she works at, she denies that she is Tom's childhood sweetheart, but she still goes on an impromptu date at the rink with him. Mary enjoys her time with Tom, but concludes with a kiss that they would not work out.  Steph visits a tuxedo shop, where she learns that Tom never was fitted for the wedding, despite his claims otherwise. Sam and Tom press on toward San Diego. Along the way, they visit a teahouse, where Sam flirts with another patron, Sarah, who gives him her mobile number. Tom watches as Sam eats a hamburger, despite claiming to be a vegetarian. Along the drive, Sam insists that they stay at a motel, despite their destination not being far away. After having beers together, Sam sneaks out to a party, where he meets up with and has sex with Sarah.  Awaking to find himself alone the following morning, Tom calls Steph, who asks him what happened between the brothers. Sam returns, prompting a confrontation with Tom, revealing that Angela was a woman he was attracted to who Sam had sex with. After Tom abandons him, Sam visits Sarah, who he tells he is not a nice person to. Sam and Tom reunite and rectify their relationship. They drive to the last and real Mary's home, but Tom says it does not matter anymore, and they head back to Los Angeles. Steph states she does not wish to get married, while Sam confesses that he needs to improve upon himself. Sam moves out, although he wishes to garden for Steph on a weekly basis. Sam visits Tom at an art gallery featuring his illustrations depicting their road trip.