In 1919, thirteen-year-old Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia, a Russian Grand Duchess, escapes through a portal created by her family's old friend, Grigori Rasputin, when her family is threatened by the Bolsheviks, led by Vladimir Lenin. Anastasia finds herself in the United States, seventy years later, in 1989. She also finds herself in a suburban neighborhood. However, Anastasia is unaware that an enchantress, Yara, is working with Lenin. She has hypnotized Rasputin, sending him through another portal to capture her.   Anastasia is befriended by Megan, a thirteen-year-old girl who had recently moved and feels lonely as she has no friends. Despite Anastasia's initially fragmentary grasp of English, she introduces herself to Megan as "Annie," aided by an amulet Rasputin gave her that glows when she is in the presence of a person she can trust. As Anastasia's understanding of English grows, Megan finds her a place to stay in a currently-vacant house near Megan's own, and the two even manage to befriend a pop star giving a concert in a nearby mall who helps buy Anastasia contemporary clothing.  Eventually, Anastasia is able to tell Megan the truth about herself when she finds a book on the Romanov family's fate, but is disturbed to learn of their apparent deaths. Trying to cheer Anastasia up, Megan offers her one of a pair of "best friend" bracelets she bought herself in the past, as she had never had anyone to share them with.  When the two girls go to a haunted house party on Halloween, Anastasia is captured by Rasputin when she and Megan are separated. Megan's school bullies initially convince her that Anastasia left the party on her own, but later, when she sees a live local news report of a traffic accident, Megan spots Anastasia and Rasputin in the background and realizes what actually happened. Tracking them to the park where she first met Anastasia, Megan is able to help distract Rasputin long enough for Anastasia to open a new portal, allowing her to go back to a few moments before her original trip into the future and help her family escape Lenin's forces, with Rasputin staying behind to buy them time to escape.  Back in 1989, Megan is once again disappointed at the loss of her friend, but when her mother suggests she introduce herself to the new neighbors, she is overjoyed to realize that the elderly grandmother of the new family next door is Anastasia herself, now at eighty-three years of age. Anastasia invites her inside to tell her everything that happened to her since their last meeting.