Al-Qaeda terrorists in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, detonate an explosive at an American oil company housing compound, killing both American and Saudi citizens. A suicide bomber, disguised as a police officer, blows himself up and terrorists shoot at the survivors before they are stopped by Sergeant Haytham of the Saudi State Police. Francis Manner, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Legal Attaché in Saudi Arabia, alerts his colleague, Special Agent Ronald Fleury, to the attacks before being killed by a second bomb.  At FBI Headquarters in Washington, D.C., Fleury briefs his rapid deployment team on the attack recruiting forensic examiner Janet Mayes, intelligence analyst Adam Leavitt, and bomb technician Grant Sykes to his team. Although the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. State Department hinder FBI efforts to investigate, Fleury blackmails the Saudi ambassador into allowing his team into Riyadh. On arrival, they are met by Colonel Faris al-Ghazi, the commander of the Saudi State Police Force providing security at the compound, and General Al Abdulmalik of the Saudi Arabian National Guard, whose inexperience in criminal investigation hinders Fleury's team.  The team is invited to the palace of Saudi Prince Ahmed bin Khaled where Fleury convinces the Prince that Colonel al-Ghazi is a better fit to lead the investigation. With this change in leadership, the Americans are allowed direct to the crime scene. While searching for evidence, Sergeant Haytham and Sykes discover the second bomb was detonated in an ambulance and that the brother of one of the dead terrorists had access to ambulances and police uniforms. Al-Ghazi orders a raid by the Saudi Emergency Force on a terrorist stronghold, killing several of them. Afterward, Fleury's team discovers clues, including photos of the U.S. and other Western embassies in Riyadh. The U.S. Embassy Deputy Chief of Mission Damon Schmidt notifies Fleury and his team that they have been ordered to return to the United States.  On their way to King Khalid International Airport, the team's convoy is attacked and Leavitt is kidnapped. Al-Ghazi commandeers a civilian vehicle and the team chases the car holding Leavitt into the dangerous Al-Suwaidi neighborhood. As they pull up, a gunman fires rocket-propelled grenades at them and a fierce firefight starts. Leavitt is carried into a room inside a complex, where the terrorists prepare to film his execution.   While Sykes and Haytham watch the entrance to the complex, al-Ghazi, Fleury, and Mayes follow a blood trail and kill many gunmen inside. Mayes, separated from the others, finds the room holding Leavitt and saves him just in time. As al-Ghazi and the team start to leave. Fleury then realizes there is a trail of blood leading to the back of the apartment, where a family stays. After noticing several clues, al-Ghazi realizes the grandfather, Abu Hamza, is the terrorist leader. Hamza's teenage grandson walks out of the bedroom and shoots al-Ghazi in the neck, then points his gun at Mayes, prompting Fleury to kill him. Al-Ghazi bleeds out in Fleury's arms. Hamza pulls out an assault rifle and is killed by Haytham. As Hamza dies he whispers something to his other grandchild.  At Al-Ghazi's house, Fleury and Haytham meet and comfort his family. Fleury and his team return to the U.S., where they are commended by the FBI Director for their work. Leavitt asks Fleury what he whispered to Mayes, earlier in the film, to get her to stop crying over Manner. Fleury responds that he had told Mayes "we were gonna kill 'em all". Elsewhere, Hamza's daughter asks her son about his grandfather's last words; The boy tells his mother, "Don't fear them, my child. We are going to kill them all".