Jay and Silent Bob lose a court case to Saban Films, who are making a new Bluntman and Chronic film, Bluntman V Chronic. They also unknowingly gave up naming rights, and can no longer call themselves "Jay and Silent Bob".  Jay and Bob visit Brodie Bruce, who tells them about the Bluntman and Chronic reboot, directed by Kevin Smith. Largely completed, but a major scene is to be shot at the annual fan convention "Chronic-Con" in Hollywood. They have three days to get to Los Angeles to stop film completion and win back their identities, and so once again, they depart for California.  In an intermission, the fallen angel Loki then breaks the fourth wall to reveal that he was resurrected by God following Dogma, before revealing that in the twenty years since, he was both the actor Matt Damon and the spy Jason Bourne. Returning to the main plot, Jay and Bob first arrive in Chicago, where Jay sees his ex, Justice, is a local weathergirl. Jay and Bob visit Justice, who tells Jay he left her heartbroken by never visiting her in jail, which Jay attributes to the prison's lack of conjugal visits. She has since married Reggie and given birth to their love child, Millennium "Milly" Faulken. Introducing Jay to their daughter and her best friend Sopapilla, but urges him to never tell her who he is.  Justice leaves for vacation, and Milly forces Jay to take her and Sopapilla to Hollywood with them. Drugging Jay and Bob with a strong edible, they wake up on a highway in New Orleans, where they meet Milly's two other friends, Jihad and Shan Yu. Saying they want to go to Chronic-Con as Shan Yu is a huge fan of the first film and it is her dream to attend. Stealing a van, they drive to California. Milly blames her bad behavior on never knowing her dad.  Jay and Bob are abandoned by the group and set off in search of the van. They find it in a vacant area, where the Ku Klux Klan have kidnapped the girls and are having a rally. Bob steals a Klan hood and passes himself off as the new Grand Dragon to distract them while Jay rescues the girls. They throw a portable toilet at the Klansmen and flee. Jay, Bob, and the girls make it to Chronic-Con and sneak in. Jay and Bob plan to ruin the shoot, while the girls want to be extras to fulfill Shan Yu's dream. Agreeing to part ways, Jay hugs Milly and lets her know he is proud.  After attempting to sneak past a familiar security guard, Jay and Bob are pursued throughout the con. They hide in an empty panel room where they are met by Holden McNeil, who has just finished recording a podcast with Alyssa Jones. Holden donated his sperm to Alyssa and her wife so they have a child, whom he helps co-parent. Holden tells Jay that fatherhood gave him a new purpose. This inspires Jay to abort the mission and be a father to Milly. Holden gives them VIP badges, which grants him and the girls access to the panel with Kevin Smith.  Noticing that Bob bears a resemblance to Smith, Milly sneaks backstage and knocks out Smith, giving Smith's clothes to Bob as a disguise. They bring Milly and Shan Yu on stage to film the scene, but Shan Yu realizes, knocks Bob unconscious, bringing out the real Kevin Smith. Shan Yu reveals herself to be a Russian spy, bent on destroying American pop culture conventions. Jay tells Milly he is her father. Bob regains consciousness outside and puts on a large metal "Iron Bob" suit that was to be used in the filming of the scene. Controlling the suit, Bob incites a riot at the panel and disarms Shan Yu and her henchmen, and the duo win back their identities.  After getting home, Jay shows Milly the Quick Stop and tells her the stories of his and Silent Bob's adventures, including meeting Justice. Dante Hicks arrives to open the Quick Stop and bemoans the fact that the steel shutter locks are once again jammed closed by chewing gum.  In a post-credits scene, Jay tells Milly that for the past twenty-five years, he and Silent Bob have been pranking Dante by jamming gum in the locks.