Aging Atlanta Braves baseball scout Gus Lobel believes his latest scouting assignment may be his last unless he can prove his value to the organization. He's viewed as unadaptable to changes within the game, especially advanced statistical analysis. His boss and friend Pete does not want to let him go, but is contending with ambitious junior executive Phillip Sanderson, vying for the general manager post, who feels Gus is an obstacle to his ambition.  Pete suspects Gus is hiding health problems so, behind his back, Pete contacts Gus's daughter Mickey, a workaholic lawyer pursuing partnership in her firm, asking her to join her father on a scouting trip to North Carolina. Gus is to review top prospect Bo Gentry, whose gaudy statistics make him a likely top draft pick.  Although the two have a strained relationship, Mickey agrees to accompany him. She quickly realizes Gus's sight is failing, so she actively helps to make up for his shortcoming. Along the way, he reconnects with a former player he once scouted, Johnny "The Flame" Flanagan, now a scout for the Boston Red Sox, who becomes interested in Mickey. The Red Sox have the top pick in the draft, just ahead of the Braves, and Johnny is also scouting Bo Gentry.  Mickey asks Gus why he left her as a child with an aunt and uncle she barely knew after her mother died. He states that, on a scouting trip, a child molester approached her. Mickey has no memory of the incident; Gus explains he prevented anything from happening, but nearly beat the man to death. Afterwards, he felt that always being on the road as a scout meant he couldn't protect Mickey properly. She tells him keeping her away was worse, blaming him for her long chain of poor relationships with potential suitors. She then walks away, leaving Gus frustrated.  As Gus and Mickey watch Bo play with other scouts present, they use Gus's hearing and Mickey's sight to review him. Spotting a problem with his ability to hit a curveball, Gus and Mickey both advise Johnny to pass on Bo in the draft, explaining why in detail, and Johnny takes their advice. However, when Gus gives Pete and the Braves' management the same advice, Phillip disagrees, showing his statistical analysis as proof that Bo should be drafted. He doubles down by staking his career on the decision to sign Bo, leading Braves general manager Vince to draft him as the club's first pick. When Johnny learns of the move, he incorrectly believes that Gus and Mickey double-crossed him to allow the Braves to draft Bo, and leaves angrily.  After yet another argument Gus abandons Mickey at the motel, taking a bus back to Atlanta. While packing her belongings, Mickey hears a pitcher throwing outside her room and realizes he has talent just from the sound of the ball hitting the catcher's mitt. She approaches the young man, Rigoberto Sanchez, and volunteers to catch for him. After seeing him throw a few curveballs, she is sure he is a baseball prospect so she calls Pete, who reluctantly agrees to have him attend a tryout in Atlanta.  Returning to the Braves' office, Vince and Phillip criticize Gus for his evaluation of Bo. Pete interrupts to let them know Mickey has brought Rigoberto to the field. As Bo practices batting, hitting one long ball after another, Phillip mocks Gus and Mickey for bringing in Rigo, an unknown. Bo remembers Rigo selling peanuts at a high school game, and also mocks him. Regardless, Mickey insists they allow Rigo to pitch. He throws several fastballs, which Bo fails to hit. Then Mickey states "that's not even his best pitch" and asks him to throw his curve. Bo, even though he knows what pitch is coming, cannot connect with the ball on four straight attempts. Gus explains why he was against signing Bo: "That's known as 'trouble with the curve'." The executives realize they were wrong about both Bo and Gus.  The managers resume their meeting, intent on signing Rigo. When Pete asks who can represent Rigo, Gus immediately suggests Mickey, pointing out her legal background and knowledge of the game. When Phillip makes another snide remark about Gus, Vince fires him and offers Gus a contract extension. As Gus and Mickey leave the building, she gets a call from her firm offering her a partnership; she declines it and tosses the phone into a dumpster.  Outside the stadium, Mickey and Gus find Johnny waiting for them. Mickey approaches him and they kiss. Gus watches for a moment, then lights a cigar and walks away, muttering, "Looks like I'll be taking the bus."