Danyael Rosales is a street preacher who thinks God does not care about anyone because of the death of his parents, Valerie Rosales and the angel Danyael from the previous film. He is then forced to face his destiny. As a Nephilim, he has some of the angels' abilities, such as regeneration, and can only be killed if his heart is removed. One night, a blind assassin shoots Danyael as he preaches before a crowd, but the assassin is driven off before he can take out Danyael's heart. The assassin is then compelled to commit suicide by an unseen force. The angel Zophael goes after Danyael himself with a weapon with a blade that can be turned into a three-pronged hook. Danyael is protected by Gabriel, a now-human fallen angel who killed Danyael's father and performed many misdeeds. After being defeated by Danyael's mother, Gabriel was turned into a human as punishment. Having spent years as a human, he now realizes how wrong he was in the past.  Zophael convinces Danyael's girlfriend Maggie to work with him to stop Danyael. When she becomes suspicious of his motives, Maggie shoots Zophael. It has little effect on the angel, who finally tells her what he is. Frightened and confused, Maggie agrees to help him, and the two catch up to Danyael on a Native American reservation. He is on his way to confront Pyriel, another angel who wants to overthrow God. Danyael briefly meets Mary, a Native American woman (first introduced as a child in the first film). Mary informs Danyael that she dreamed of his coming, and that she believes he will be victorious against Pyriel. Danyael is attacked by Zophael, who has purposefully crashed Maggie's truck and badly injured her. He then faces off against Zophael in battle and seemingly defeats him by impaling his chest with a motorcycle tailpipe, but the angel gets back up and uses his weapon to impale Danyael from behind. Before Zophael can remove Danyael's heart, Maggie empties her gun into him. Danyael takes his chance and removes Zophael's heart through the hole he created earlier, finally killing him.  Danyael heads off to face Pyriel, armed with Zophael's weapon while Gabriel watches over Maggie. Danyael is no match for Pyriel, but he does succeed in impaling him with Zophael's weapon. Danyael is about to lose when God sends down a lightning bolt, electrocuting the weapon and, through it, Pyriel. Danyael extends the blade into its prong form and removes Pyriel's heart with it, killing him and apparently ending the war in Heaven. He returns to Gabriel, who through showing compassion and care to a human and helping to stop the war, has regained his angelic status. Redeemed and with his powers restored, he heals Maggie's wounds before returning to Heaven.