Victor Martin is a retired Air Force pilot and lifelong bachelor who relives his youth cruising in his mint condition, silver, 1955 Porsche 356, usually accompanied by his best friend, retired jeweler Sal Spinelli.  Victor and Sal encounter Pablo Torres, driving a vintage Chevrolet Impala lowrider and challenge him to a friendly drag race.  However, Pablo is aware that there is a cop hiding ahead, and proceeds within the speed limit, letting Victor get pulled over.  The police officer recognizes Victor as a well known character in the community and lets him off with a stern warning.  On a subsequent evening, Victor and Sal encounter Pablo again and actually drag race. Victor loses control and spins out and is charged with reckless driving. His license is revoked and his Porsche impounded as a result.  Forced to ride the bus, Victor meets Caroline Summers who owns an organic cafe called the "Cuckoo Cafe" and heads a grassroots organization to save the endangered desert tortoise. Victor particularly wins her heart when he and Sal, using Sal's expertise as a jeweler, repair a 19th century cuckoo clock, a family heirloom of Caroline's, which had not functioned for years, but for which her Cafe is named.  Victor's relationship with Caroline is not without rough patches. Victor's worst faux-pas is accusing Caroline of having an affair with Diego Lozana, a successful painter. It turns out that Caroline spends a lot of time with him because he is the main benefactor of her charity to save the tortoise, and she has commissioned him to paint a partially nude portrait of her (which resulted in Victor seeing her in a state of undress in his presence). It turns out that Diego is gay and happily married to a man. Victor must humbly apologize to Caroline.  Victor, twice, believes he sees his Porsche being driven in the area, and with the help of Pablo, who has befriended him and feels somewhat responsible for Victor losing his car and license, catches the private security guard at the impound lot illegally renting it out. The excitement and anger of this discovery cause Victor to have a heart attack and Pablo drives him to the hospital in the Porsche. Theft charges for taking the Porsche from the impound lot are dropped due to the emergency of the heart attack.  Eventually, Victor passes the necessary written and behind the wheel tests to get his driver's license reinstated. He sells his Porsche to Pablo for far below its value as thanks for saving his life, and buys a BMW i8 to replace it, and Sal is seen cruising in Pablo's lowrider, apparently having bought it.  Through their relationship, Victor develops a passion for saving the desert tortoise, and Caroline develops a guilty pleasure of riding in fast cars, despite her environmentalist leanings.