Chris and Chester are best friends working together in dead-end jobs in a large LA supermarket. They both have very different outlooks on life. Chris very much lives in the moment, while Chester is focusing on his long-term goal of moving to Brazil.  Chester asks Chris to cover his register while he meets up with Carlo who's supposedly expressed interest through Craigslist in buying his 90s Corolla. Arriving at their meeting point, Carlo asks him to drive, supposedly to see how it drives. However, his associate Paco climbs into the trunk with an automatic weapon. Chester discovers he's being used as a get-away driver for a drive-by. After the Guatemalans shower the rival gang with bullets, Chester takes them on a gridlocked freeway and escapes on foot.  Chris's day starts with his 35 y.o. diabetic brother Johnny videoing him pranking him, which goes viral. As he's a ticket scalper, Chris swipes two tickets. At work as he covers Chester's register he tells customers they can't pay with credit, only cash, so he can skim the register to recover his impounded car. Discovering the tickets are fakes, he arranges to meet legit scalper Jay Morrison, swaps the tickets and steals drugs.  The supermarket manager Danny, a gambler and addict, calls Jay for coke although he already owes him 3,000. Under threat of bodily harm, he cleans out a register to give him 1,000. Given an hour to come up with the rest, Danny calls Chester into his office and tells him he discovered that he and Chris had stolen food to resell to another supermarket and threatens to call the police. Chester offers to give him the money from his car sale.  Mr. Winters comes a day early to oversee the supermarket and how it's run for the next two weeks. Brooke enters to give the register tallies and they discover the 800 Chris took while he was operating Chester's register. Danny realises that he himself must have been captured on camera emptying a register. Two undercover LAPD cops approach him, pressuring him to help them catch Jay.   Jay arrives home and discovers that Chris switched the tickets. Calling Sahara a thot, she slaps him, then she tries to get him to open up. Together for six years, she asks him if he's gay, so Jay promptly breaks up with her. Soon after, he comes across Chris and Chester on the highway, shooting out the newly-recovered car's windows and tires.  Chris and Chester hitch to the show, and are picked up by Sahara and her friend. At the venue, although their tickets were valid, the gates are closed as it's at capacity. They jump the fence, and once inside Chester forces Chris to come clean. Jay finds them in the toilets, but before he can enact revenge for the tickets and moonrocks a high Chester knocks him down.   Early the next morning, the buddies arrive back in LA with Sahara and Carmen, and Chris gives Chester 1,000 from selling the moonrocks. Jay arrives to deal to Danny at the supermarket and the LAPD take him in. A short while later they return as Winters and Brooke have found footage implicating Danny in the theft of 1,800. Carlo and Paco are taken in for auto theft and Chester flies to Brazil.