Randolph "Randy" Bradley is a fast food worker in rural Louisiana who is slated to be promoted to manager yet is still bullied by the other employees. After Benson, his co-worker, sees Randy being bullied by another employee named Chris, he unexpectedly snaps and shoots all the workers in the building save for Randy. Randy reluctantly helps Benson clean the bloody crime scene and place the bodies in the freezer.  The duo drive to a nearby diner, where Randy asks why Benson committed the shooting spree. Benson's response is to insult their waitress, saying that she hasn’t done anything remarkable in her life.  Benson takes Randy to Benson's mother's house to give her some food and cigarettes. When Randy goes to fetch the phone for his mom, Benson assumes he is trying to call the police and pins him against the wall. They go back to Benson's car, where Benson says that he has to hurt Randy to make him learn and sets up a rule that he does only what is necessary for Randy.  The duo head to a mall to talk to Randy’s ex-girlfriend, Lisa. She explains that the reason for their breakup was because of Randy's apathy. and they reconcile. Randy explains to Benson that he had been held back in second grade due to an incident with his teacher, Mrs. Beard, in which he flung a pencil into her eye after being angry, and it ruined their lives; Mrs. Beard was abused by the people in her life, and Randy decided to isolate all of his feelings after the incident for fear of what his emotions can do to others.   Benson and Randy then go to the school where Mrs. Beard worked, to get her home address, whilst Benson plans to kill her. Outside, Benson spots the vice principal. Benson viciously beats him, but Randy stops the attack from becoming fatal because of the rule Benson set for Randy.  At Mrs. Beard's house, Randy learns that she does not blame him for the accident and states that if it did not happen, she never would have her daughter. When the phone rings and Mrs. Beard answers it, she is told about the vice principal's earlier beating. Benson pulls a gun on Mrs. Beard, but Randy negotiates that Benson not kill her, at which point Benson takes Mrs. Beard hostage and plans on driving out the city.  The three return to the diner from earlier. Whilst in the restroom, Randy contacts the police. Heading to the booth where Benson and Mrs. Beard are sitting, they are confronted by the waitress from earlier. Still angered by Benson’s insult, she berates him until he shoots her in the leg. Randy tries to stop Benson, and then they hear the sound of police sirens. Angered and scared, Benson shoots Randy in the shoulder, but immediately apologizes. Saddened by Randy's betrayal, Benson walks outside and commits suicide by cop. Sometime later, Randy plays with Mrs. Beard's daughter as she arrives home and he is finally happy, showing that he now has control over his own life.