Fred and Rose Nemser are newlyweds relocating to Bennington College for Fred's job as a lecturer. Fred is about to work for Stanley Hyman while Rose, still a student, is already enthralled by the work of Stanley's wife, Shirley Jackson, writer of "The Lottery", the dark short story which shocked readers of The New Yorker when it was published on June 26, 1948.  Minutes after their first meeting, Shirley asks Rose about her (not yet announced) pregnancy, saying "I'm a witch, didn't you know?" Soon after, Stanley asks Rose to help with menial jobs around the house because Shirley is struggling to write after suffering another bout of agoraphobia. Fred and Rose reluctantly assent and move into the house. Rose realizes that she has unwittingly agreed to serve as the family housekeeper. She also sees the pathology of Stanley and Shirley's marriage: in his worship of Shirley's genius as a writer, Stanley enables her drinking and her lethargy; in turn, Shirley tolerates Stanley's posturing and pomposity, and she winks at his serial love affairs.  The Nemsers move into the Jackson-Hyman house. Shirley is deliberately dismissive of and even cruel to Rose, who has apparently given up on her studies in order to manage the household. Shirley begins to write again, announcing a new work based on Paula Jean Welden, a young woman who recently disappeared from Bennington's campus. Stanley is obsessive and controlling about Shirley's writing process; he asserts that she is a genius, but he wheedles and cajoles her to stay on task. Despite her initial harsh treatment of Rose, Shirley begins to think of the younger woman as somewhat of a muse. Shirley opens up to Rose, having her do research for the new book, including stealing the medical files for Paula Jean Welden. As the two grow closer, Rose falls more and more under Shirley's spell. She is enraptured by and protective of Shirley. A sexual flirtation builds between them, but is never acknowledged or consummated by the two.  In the meantime, the relationship between Stanley and Fred deteriorates as Stanley seeks to tamp down Fred's ambitions and to torpedo his career as an academic.  Rose's baby is born, yet Shirley remains wrapt in the cocoon of her writing; the arrival of a baby has little effect on life in the Jackson/Hyman household. Now feeling that the Nemsers have served their purpose, Stanley arranges for them to move out. Desperate to stay, Rosie writes the name of Paula Jean Welden in a Bennington College library book and gives it to Shirley, hoping she'll infer that Paula had been Stanley's student and had been having an affair with him. To Rose's shock, Shirley is unaffected, saying that she's well aware of Stanley's love affairs and that she knows Paula was not one of his lovers. She also reveals that Rose's husband Fred is just the same as Stanley — that he too has been having sex with his students.  After confronting Fred about his infidelity, Rose runs off. As she walks along the road, with her baby daughter in her arms, Shirley pulls up next to her in a car and offers to drive her wherever she would like. Rose wants to see the trail where Paula disappeared. When Shirley arrives, Rose hands her the baby and the follows the trail into the woods. Shirley finds her at the edge of a cliff, where Rose is clearly weighing whether or not to jump. After a tense moment, Rose gives in and turns away from the edge. Her safe return home isn't a capitulation, though. When she and Fred finally drive away from the Jackson-Hyman house, Rose vows never to return to being a docile wife devoted to a life of domesticity.  Alone at last, Shirley allows Stanley to read her work on Hangsaman. He declares it to be a work of genius. Shirley acknowledges his praise. It's obviously a familiar pattern in their peculiar partnership. The two celebrate by drinking and dancing — together and yet alone in their cluttered house.