Mal, an addict, shoots his mother, sets their trailer on fire, and heads to the mall.  At the same time, a cop urges philosophical college student Jeff to stop loitering on private property.  Jeff and his friend Adelle also go to the mall, as Jeff tells her about his belief that modern society has become soulless and a shallow facsimile of itself.  Jeff describes several of the people that they see at the mall and narratives what he imagines their back story to be: Donna, a bored housewife who obsesses over her attractiveness; Barry, a salesman who hates his business but stays in it because he understands it; Michael, a security guard who, after immigrating, becomes a widower and lives only for his job; and Danny, a married businessman who engages in casual sex.  Jeff and Adelle meet up with Beckett and Shel, and Beckett shares ecstasy with Jeff.  Beckett attempts to talk Jeff out of his crush on Adelle, to no avail.  When Danny is arrested (by the same cop who hassled Jeff) for peeping on Donna who forgets to lock the fitting room door while she changes clothes, Beckett and Shel leave to gawk at the scene.  Alone with Adelle, Jeff confesses to her that he has fallen in love with her, but she calls him unexciting and wanders off.  Mal arrives at the mall and kills Barry, who is his father, and several cops.  Hurt, Jeff stumbles in a drug-addled daze through the mall, not aware of the crowds that have begun to flee.  Mal leaves the mall, kills the cops who arrested Danny, and heads to the forest.  Michael grabs a spare rifle from Mal's car and follows him.  Beckett, Shel, and Adelle arrive in the parking lot, where they find Danny still handcuffed.  As they discuss what to do with him, he begs them to free him so that he can go home.  After Beckett and Shel leave to vandalize the mall, Adelle points out that she can do anything she wants to Danny.  She moves him to his own car, binds him in place with a seat belt, tightens his handcuffs, and molests him while forcing him to repeat, "I'm a pervert."  She leaves once he passes out.  Meanwhile, Jeff meets Donna in a bar, and after he tells her that she does not look old enough to have kids, she invites him to a motel room, where they have sex.  Unconcerned with what has happened at the mall, Donna merely asks for details so that she can craft a believable cover story.  Jeff wanders back to the mall, where he discovers Beckett and Shell taking pictures of Danny with their cell phones.  Jeff chases them away and offers to take Danny to a hospital.  Danny requests that he brought back to his home.  When Danny asks Jeff if he knows Adelle based on her description, Jeff says that she is not a friend.  Satisfied, Danny approaches his house, still handcuffed.  As Jeff walks off, he encounters Mal, who ended up wounded after a shootout with Michael.  Mal and Jeff talk briefly, and Mal requests that Jeff kill him.  Jeff refuses and calls him a coward who is willing to die but not to live.  As Jeff runs off, the cops gather for an assault on Mal's location.  As Donna returns to her boring life, Jeff quotes Steppenwolf, saying that one day he will learn to laugh.  The film ends as he laughs.