Fred goes into music class to find his favorite teacher, Mrs. Felson, has been replaced by a teacher named Mr. Devlin. Walking home from school, Fred notices a strange girl named Talia following him. Fred believes he is being stalked, but she just walks the same way to school as him. Spying on Devlin that night, Fred sees him burying something, which he suspects is the body of Mrs. Felson. Kevin's mother invites Fred and his mother to a party for Mr. Devlin. At the party, Fred's mother falls in love with Mr. Devlin, and Fred is horrified to learn that Talia is actually Kevin's sister.  The next day, Fred becomes skeptical of Devlin and reaches the conclusion that he is a vampire. Mr. Devlin takes Fred's mother on a date, so Fred enlists his friend Bertha to spy on them. At a restaurant, Fred and Bertha learn that Mr. Devlin doesn't like garlic on his fries, making them all the more suspicious.  Fred is horrified at school the following day to discover Mr. Devlin running a blood drive at school. He's even more worried to discover Bertha taking personal music lessons from Devlin. Fred gathers items to use as weapons against Devlin, planning to defeat him at the school piano recital. Fred arms himself with various tools and goes on a shooting spree of garlic sauce at the recital, soaking everyone except Devlin.  Mr. Devlin invites him into his house for dinner after the fiasco, so that they can "Bury the hatchet". Fred sets up a live video stream from his cell phone so he can prove to his classmates that Devlin is a vampire. After showing off Devlin's living room and digging for "bodies", Fred discovers a secret butchers' room behind a wall filled with meat and bones. As Fred investigates, Devlin comes in with a long knife and a tall headdress. Fred then drops his phone into a pot of boiling liquid, freezing on Devlin, and the image of Devlin in his headdress causes everyone watching the video to think that he is a vampire. But after Devlin explains every hobby he has, Fred starts to relate to him, and he comes to realize Devlin is not a vampire, just an eccentric and cultural music teacher.  Everyone at Fred's school has seen his video, which makes everyone believe that Devlin is a vampire. Fred runs to Devlin's house to apologize, but Devlin is too depressed to answer. When Fred learns Devlin has gotten fired and put his house up for sale, he feels guilty and decides to fix things by making everyone think he himself is the vampire. Bertha and Talia both help, as Talia reveals how much she dislikes her brother. Kevin and his friends go up to Devlin's house because they think he has kidnapped Talia. Fred walks out of the garage carrying her, threatening to turn her into a vampire. Bertha makes Kevin stab Fred, and he gets sprayed with fake blood, making everyone believe Fred really is a vampire. Devlin accepts Fred's apology, revealing that he quit his job and sold his house of his own choice, but still sees Fred as his one true friend. As Fred's mother and Devlin go out for a good-bye lunch, Fred looks at the mirror in his house and sees that Mr. Devlin has no reflection, revealing that he was a vampire after all.