Zohanele "Zohan" Dvir is an Israeli counter-terrorist commando with a widespread reputation for his promiscuity and superhuman traits. Despite his success and popularity in Israel, he has grown tired of the everlasting conflict in his country; he dreams of leaving his military career behind to become a hairstylist for John Paul Mitchell Systems in the United States. When he reveals this ambition to his parents, they dismiss and mock him, urging him to continue his military service.  For his next mission, he is tasked with capturing his long-time arch-rival: Fatoush "Phantom" Hakbarah, a Palestinian militant who also possesses superhuman traits. After engaging Phantom in a one-on-one fight, Zohan fakes his own death and subsequently smuggles himself onto a plane to New York City. To disguise his true identity, he cuts his long hair and adopts the alias "Scrappy Coco" after two dogs (Scrappy and Coco) whom he shared the flight with. Phantom's supposed success in killing Zohan garners him much fame across the Arab world, leading him to open the "Phantom Muchentuchen" restaurant chain.  After arriving in the United States, Zohan immediately seeks out a job at the local Paul Mitchell salon, but becomes a laughing stock after inadvertently humiliating himself in front of the stylists. He then tries to find employment at other salons, but is consistently turned down due to his lack of experience. Later, Zohan witnesses a traffic collision involving two motorists and a cyclist named Michael. One of the motorists starts bullying Michael and yells anti-Arab slurs at Zohan, who promptly beats him up. Michael, a young Jewish American, subsequently befriends the homeless Zohan and takes him in at his apartment, where he lives with his mother Gail. After Zohan moves in, he and Gail begin to have sex on a regular basis, much to Michael's disapproval.  At a disco, Zohan encounters a fellow Israeli immigrant named Oori, who runs a shady electronics shop. He recognizes Zohan as Israel's famous superhuman soldier and vows to keep his true identity a secret before bringing him to an area in Lower Manhattan that is predominantly populated by other Middle Eastern immigrants, including Israeli Americans and Palestinian Americans. At Oori's suggestion, Zohan attempts to secure a job at the struggling salon of a Palestinian woman named Dalia. Due in part to his lack of experience, she only allows Zohan to sweep the salon's floors, informing him that he will not receive any pay due to her salon facing severe financial difficulties.   When a stylist named Nadira unexpectedly quits, one of the customers asks Zohan to cut her hair. He accepts and gives the customer an unusually intimate but exceptional haircut, finishing the job by having sex with her in the bathroom. Zohan's reputation as a sexually charged stylist spreads rapidly among the deprived elderly women of Lower Manhattan, causing Dalia's business to prosper. Through Zohan's efforts, Dalia is able to manage her rent payments in full, upsetting a corporate businessman named Grant Walbridge, who has been trying to buy out all of the local tenants on the block so that he can build a massive mall with a rollercoaster.  Eventually, Zohan is identified by a Palestinian-American taxi driver named Salim, who recognizes his face while he is dropping off his passengers in front of Dalia's salon. Salim bears a grudge against Zohan due to a past incident between the two that ended with Zohan stealing Salim's beloved pet goat in retaliation for being spat on during a confrontation. Shortly afterwards, Salim meets with his friends Hamdi and Nasi, and convinces them to help him kill Zohan. After unsuccessfully attempting to get in touch with Hezbollah, Salim contacts Phantom, who is living lavishly in Amman, Jordan. He threatens to publicly disclose the truth about Zohan being alive, but Phantom makes a deal with him and prepares to come to the United States to find Zohan himself.  Meanwhile, Zohan has fallen in love with Dalia. He expresses his feelings and comes clean to her, as well as to Michael and Gail, about his true identity. After Dalia rejects Zohan due to his history of service with the Israeli military, he understands and decides to quit working at her salon, hoping to keep her safe from any inter-ethnic strife. He later confronts Phantom in a championship Hacky Sack game sponsored by Walbridge. However, the confrontation is cut short as Zohan departs after he is suddenly informed of the Middle Eastern neighborhood being attacked by unknown assailants.  As their businesses burn, Zohan calms the Israelis and the Palestinians, as both sides are blaming each other for the violence. As they all gradually discuss their issues, Zohan makes peace with Salim. When Phantom appears, he confronts Zohan, who refuses to fight after having been deeply inspired by Dalia's pacifism. Dalia then discloses that she is Phantom's sister, and convinces her brother to cooperate with Zohan against the arsonists, who are revealed to be a group of white supremacists led by a certain James T. O'Scanlon on Walbridge's payroll.   Walbridge hired the group to instigate an inter-ethnic riot in the Middle Eastern neighborhood in order to facilitate the building of his new mall on top of the damaged buildings. As he works with Zohan to save the block, Phantom admits that he always wanted to be a shoe salesman rather than a terrorist. Although the racist arsonists are defeated and Walbridge is arrested by the police, the overexcited Phantom accidentally destroys all of the remaining shops on the block with his superhuman screams.  With the Israelis and Palestinians now working together, the block is rebuilt and transformed into a collectively-owned mall. The mall becomes home to Phantom's new shoe store as well as Oori's relocated electronics shop. Salim starts a goat-riding business after Zohan returned his pet goat to him, and Michael becomes a hairdresser. Zohan and Dalia, having now married, open a beauty salon together. Zohan's parents visit from Israel and approve of his new job and lifestyle before his father requests that he cut his hair, which Zohan happily does.