In the near future, human society has fallen to violence and chaos, with gangs fighting over territory and many people now living as homeless scavengers. A group of immortals still has resources and access to advanced technology. It includes the ancient Methos, computer hacker Reggie, warrior Zai Jie, and Cardinal Giovanni, who represents the Vatican. The group seeks to locate the mysterious "Source of Immortality." Zai Jie seems to find a lead on its location. However, while contacting the group, he is killed by the Guardian of the Source, a monstrous immortal with unnatural speed. Convinced they need help, Methos asks his old friend Joe Dawson to find Duncan MacLeod.  Duncan wanders the wastelands after separating from his mortal wife who decided she could not remain with him because of his infertility. While wandering, MacLeod is attacked by the Guardian and briefly fights him before Joe Dawson recruits him. They rendezvous with Methos, Reggie and Giovanni at a monastery to meet with the Elder, an ancient being that can help them locate the Source. At the monastery, they find Anna Teshemka, who reveals to have been having visions related to the Source.  The Elder, an immortal whose body continually decays, explains how a group of immortals once found the Source in ancient times. Upon slaying the Guardian, two of the three survivors were cursed, with one of them becoming the new Guardian while another became the endlessly decaying Elder (the third is later implied to have been reincarnated as Anna). The Elder tells them that Anna's visions mean she knows the way. The Elder warns that the closer they get to the Source, the weaker they will become.  The Guardian arrives and attacks Reggie and Joe Dawson on holy ground. In an effort to save Dawson, Duncan throws his katana at the Guardian, temporarily wounding him. Unaffected, the Guardian breaks the sword and kills Joe before escaping. After burying Joe, Duncan and the others leave to find the Source, which seems to be on an island off the coast of Lithuania in the Baltic Sea, an island ruled by gangs of cannibals. Talking with Anna, he is surprised she has not started a family with a fertile mortal man. Anna remarks she did not simply want children, she wanted children with Duncan.  After fighting locals, Duncan and his allies drive to a deserted house close to where they believe the Source to be. That night, the Guardian starts slashing Reggie. Due to their proximity to the Source, his wounds do not heal and he dies. After burying Reggie, the group continues. During the journey, Duncan and Methos conclude the expression "there can be only one" does not refer to one person becoming the last immortal and claiming the Prize, the power of all immortals who ever lived. It actually refers to the fact that only one immortal can claim the full power of the Source.  At a road block, the group is captured by cannibals. While the cannibals celebrate, the Guardian frees Anna and forces her to accompany him to the Source. Giovanni then escapes. Believing it is his destiny to be "the One",  he leaves Methos and Duncan to die. Duncan then frees himself and Methos. Methos concludes that Duncan is "the One" due to his incorruptible nature. He rides off on a horse to distract the cannibals, allowing Duncan to chase after Anna. Meanwhile, Giovanni is decapitated by the Guardian.  Duncan finds Anna in a clearing. The Guardian appears and challenges him. Now only a few yards away from the Source, MacLeod matches the speed and strength of the Guardian. Anna seems to commune with the Source. When Duncan tries to join her, an energy barrier blocks him. The fight continues and MacLeod uses superhuman speed to bury the Guardian in the ground up to his neck. Now immobilized and defeated, the Guardian demands death. MacLeod refuses and so the curse does not transfer to him. The Guardian vanishes in a blast of light, screaming he is now "cursed forever." Having proved his purity of heart, Duncan joins Anna and connects to the Source. As they stand together, the film ends with the image of a fetus.  In the DVD release of the movie, dialogue is added at the end, in which Anna reveals they will have a son. Duncan declares "he is the One."