The film takes place on Halloween night in the fictional town of Warren Valley, Ohio. The plot follows a nonlinear narrative, with characters crossing paths throughout the film. At the center of the story is Sam, a peculiar trick-or-treater in an orange footie pajama costume, who appears to enforce the "rules" of Halloween.  Opening In the opening scene, Emma and her Halloween-loving husband Henry return home after a celebratory night. Emma (who hates Halloween) blows out their jack-o'-lantern before midnight against Henry's superstitious advice. As Henry relaxes and falls asleep in the house, Emma begins tearing down the decorations; but is then ambushed and murdered by an unseen assailant. Hours later, Henry discovers her mutilated corpse on display with the decorations.  Principal Charlie, a child who vandalizes jack-o'-lanterns, is caught stealing candy from an unattended bowl left by his school principal Steven Wilkins. Seemingly taking the offense in stride, Wilkins offers Charlie a candy bar while lecturing Charlie on the importance of respecting Halloween rules and traditions. Charlie gradually feels more unwell until he begins to vomit chocolate and blood. As Charlie dies, Wilkins reveals that he laced the candy with cyanide, remarking "You should always check your candy."  While clumsily attempting to hide the murder, he hands out candy to trick-or-treaters, including Sam. Wilkins attempts to bury Charlie in his backyard along with the body of another victim, but is continually interrupted by his young son Billy, his cantankerous elderly neighbor Mr. Kreeg, and Kreeg’s dog Spite. The other victim turns out to still be alive and struggles in his sack, forcing Wilkins to violently beat him to death with a shovel before anyone can discern the noise.  When Wilkins returns indoors, he briefly notices Kreeg screaming for help at the window; Wilkins brushes him off before something seems to attack him. Wilkins guides Billy downstairs to carve a jack-o'-lantern, hiding a knife behind his back. After some hesitation, Wilkins appears to stab Billy. However, Billy is unharmed and it is revealed that the knife was plunged into Charlie's severed head, the "jack-o'-lantern" they are about to carve.  Halloween School Bus Massacre A group of teenage trick-or-treaters—Macy, Chip, Schrader, and Sara—are collecting jack-o'-lanterns when they meet devout Halloween traditionalist Rhonda. The group, led by Macy, visits a flooded quarry where she recounts the urban legend of the "Halloween School Bus Massacre". In the legend, the weary and resentful parents of eight seemingly mentally handicapped children bribed their bus driver to dispose of them. Before the driver could complete his plan, one child escaped his shackles and took control of the bus; accidentally driving it off a cliff, into the quarry. The children all drowned, though the driver survived yet was never heard from again. No one tried to find the bus, as the people didn't want it to be found.  Macy leaves eight jack-o'-lanterns by the lake as a tribute to the deceased. The group splits up, leaving Rhonda and Chip behind. Rhonda gets separated and is then pursued by horrifying figures; but once she is hurt while being chased and reduced to tears the other teens reveal that it was them, disguised as the dead children in an attempt to prank her, all planned by Macy. Schrader realizes that the trick has gone too far and tries to comfort the terrified Rhonda while a bitter Macy kicks a jack-o'-lantern into the water. The actual undead children emerge from the lake and attack the teens. Rhonda coldly abandons them to their deaths as revenge for their prank. As she leaves, Rhonda encounters Sam and exchanges a nod of respect toward him.  Surprise Party Laurie, a self-conscious 22-year-old from out of town, joins her older sister Danielle and friends Maria and Janet for Halloween. The girls all select fairy tale princess costumes, encouraging Laurie to wear a "Little Red Riding Hood" costume. A devout Halloween traditionalist, Laurie misses trick-or-treating and is uncaring of her friends and sister's talks of dates.  While the other girls pick up dates and head to a party in the woods, Laurie chooses to stay and enjoy the town festival instead. Later, on the way to meet up with her friends, she is attacked by a hooded man dressed as a vampire. A bundle of red cloth later falls out of a tree by the girls' bonfire, revealing the injured and frightened vampire. After an arriving Laurie remarks that he bit her, Laurie's friends unmask the man, revealed to be Steven Wilkins, who had been seeking out victims at the festival.  Laurie's sister and friends all shed their clothing and skin and transform into werewolves. With it being her first time killing someone, and having sought out someone who deserves it, Laurie transforms and slaughters Wilkins before devouring him. Sam, sitting on a nearby log, watches as the werewolves feast on their deceased dates.  Sam Kreeg, a curmudgeonly Halloween-hater, dresses up his dog to scare trick-or-treaters off his doorstep. As the night proceeds, Kreeg encounters escalating phenomena: The front of the house is egged; the lawn is filled with ornate jack-o'-lanterns; and the hallways and ceiling are scrawled with Halloween and Samhain greetings.  Kreeg is ambushed by Sam. In their struggle, Kreeg eventually manages to unmask his assailant; whose head resembles a grotesque hybrid of a skull and a jack-o' lantern. Kreeg shoots Sam several times with a shotgun, apparently killing him. However, Sam begins to reanimate, and incapacitates and corners Kreeg. Instead of killing him, Sam impales a candy bar in Kreeg's lap, completing the tradition of "handing out" candy on Halloween. Satisfied, Sam spares a confused Kreeg and ominously departs. Meanwhile, photographs burning in the fireplace reveal that Kreeg was the driver from the School Bus Massacre who went missing.  Conclusion A heavily-bandaged Kreeg gives candy to trick-or-treaters. On his front porch, he witnesses other characters in the film mill about observing and upholding Halloween traditions: Billy sits on his father's porch, handing out candy and enjoying himself; Rhonda crosses the street casually pulling her wagon filled with jack-o'-lanterns; Laurie and her friends drive by, laughing to each other; and Emma and Henry arrive home. Sam witnesses Emma prematurely extinguishing the jack-o'-lantern and moves in to kill her as punishment. Kreeg answers another knock at his door, only to be greeted by the undead children from the bus who brutally tear him apart in retribution for their murder.