After Kurt Cobain was born in 1967, his parents moved to Aberdeen, Washington, shortly after his sister Kim is born. Kurt lived a normal childhood, although his father Don would pick on him. At the age of nine, his parents had divorced. He lived with Don for a while until Don married Jenny Westeby and they have kids together. He moved back in with his mom and as a teenager, he became unruly and started smoking pot with friends. He and his friends started to visit the home of a developmentally challenged high school classmate to steal her father's alcohol. It became a hard time for Cobain, who considered suicide for the first time. After he attempted to have sex with the girl, his classmates began insulting and shaming him. Cobain, who was unable to take the ridicule, lies down on train tracks and had the intention of ending his life, but the train traveled on a different railway.  After Kurt had become homeless and living with friends, he eventually gets his own place at 17 and started a band with Krist Novoselic. Chad Channing eventually joined the band on drums and they chose the band name "Nirvana". Nirvana's first "shows" consists of playing for a few friends and random passersby at local house parties. They eventually start playing at clubs and radio stations and Kurt starts dating Tracy Marander. The band signs onto Sub Pop record company and they release their first album, Bleach. The band starts to have interviews and doing tours. After a short while, Kurt breaks up with Tracy. Chad leaves the band, Nirvana leaves the label to sign onto DGC Records and Dave Grohl becomes the new drummer.  After recording their next album, Nevermind, their song "Smells Like Teen Spirit" becomes a hit and the band is launched into the mainstream. Kurt meets Courtney Love and they start dating. In 1992, they get married after they find out she is pregnant, but at the same time Kurt gets into heroin. In an interview with Vanity Fair, Courtney mentions Kurt's heroin habit and that Courtney tried it as well; Lynn Hirschberg, the journalist for the magazine, writes that Courtney used the drug while pregnant, misquoting her. Shortly after Frances is born, they are confronted by the Los Angeles County Department of Children's Services, who take the Cobains to court, claiming that the couple's drug usage makes them unfit parents. Due to the claims made in the Vanity Fair article, Seattle child welfare agents remove the couple's baby daughter for around four weeks. The couple eventually obtain custody in an exchange for agreeing to provide urine tests and receive regular visits from a social worker. After months of legal negotiations, the couple are eventually granted full custody of their daughter.  Kurt's heroin use continues as the band record their new album In Utero in 1993. Pat Smear joins the band and they start doing arena tours. Cobain starts to turn pale while suffering withdrawal. Not long after returning home, Cobain's heroin use resumes. The band goes on to do an MTV Unplugged performance and they continue touring again in early 1994. After being diagnosed with bronchitis and severe laryngitis, he flies to Rome the next day for medical treatment, and is joined there by Courtney, on March 3, 1994. The next morning, Love awakes to find that Cobain has overdosed on a combination of champagne and Rohypnol. Cobain is immediately rushed to the hospital and spends the rest of the day unconscious. After five days in the hospital, Cobain is released and returns to Seattle.  The screen cuts to black and a text appears stating: "One month after returning from Rome, Kurt Cobain took his own life. He was 27 years old." The credits then begin.