By June 1942, the Imperial Japanese Navy has met with spectacular success at the attack on Pearl Harbor and has swept across the Pacific, conquering vast areas. In an effort to change the course of the war, a United States Navy carrier group is positioned off the coast of Midway Atoll, the home of Naval Air Facility Midway Island. The task force plans on springing a trap on the enemy, and the ensuing Battle of Midway turns out to be a pivotal turning point of the Pacific war. thumb|150px|A U.S. Navy SBD releasing a bomb. During the battle, a two-man Douglas SBD Dauntless dive bomber crew consisting of pilot Ensign Norman Vandivier and S1 (Radioman) Lee Keaney from the USS Enterprise aircraft carrier are in the first wave of dive bombers attacking and sinking a Japanese carrier. In their attempt to escape, their aircraft is struck by enemy fire from a Japanese surface ship. Losing fuel and forced to ditch, the crew look towards their comrades for rescue.  The "misfit" crew of a Consolidated PBY Catalina led by Lieutenant Bennett are sent to search for survivors of the battle, including the downed Dauntless crew of Vandivier and Keaney. While the human drama on the ocean continues, Rear Admiral R.A. Spruance confers with his top officers in planning for the second day of the battle, knowing that his aircraft must again attack a superior foe.  At the conclusion of the battle, the attacking US Navy aircraft are running low on fuel and desperate to find their carriers in the dark. Despite the opposition from his operations officer, Captain Browning, Spruance orders all lights on the carrier Task Force 16 to be turned on, helping some of his aircraft to limp home.  Amid the vast Pacific with days passing and the chance of rescue fading, the two men in the ocean are forced to face their own mortality. At the end of the second day of the battle, Keaney finally succumbs to his injuries and hypothermia; Vandivier reluctantly pushes his crewmate away but ultimately Vandivier also succumbs to exposure.  When the Catalina flying boat takes up station again, Lieutenant Bennett and his crew locate a survivor in the water. After one of the crew swims out to bring the obviously exhausted Ensign Ramsay to the Catalina, Bennett is, however, distraught that he was unable to rescue his friend, Vandivier.