In 1986, Lorraine Lambert summons demonologist Elise Rainier to help her son Josh, who is being haunted by the spirit of an old woman in a black bridal gown. While searching for paranormal phenomena in their home, Elise's arm is slashed by an unseen but physical  force. She insists that they must suppress Josh's astral projection abilities for his own safety and plant altered memories in his brain.  24 years later, Josh's wife, Renai Lambert, is being questioned by a detective about the death of Elise. She's warned that if Josh's fingerprints are found at the crime scene, he'll be charged with Elise's murder. Josh, Renai, and their children – Dalton, Foster, and Cali – temporarily relocate to Lorraine's house, where they begin to encounter strange paranormal events again. Dalton tells his mother that he has been having bad dreams about a woman in a white dress, as well as hearing Josh talk to an unseen figure. Renai receives a call from the police stating that the fingerprints did not match Josh's. A ghostly woman in a white dress then attacks Renai and Josh hears a voice urging him to kill his family.  Specs and Tucker, Elise's former associates, show Lorraine a videotape of the 1986 investigation, enhanced to reveal an adult Josh standing behind the young Josh. They contact Elise's former colleague, Carl, who attempts to contact Elise's spirit. They are told to find answers at an abandoned hospital, where Lorraine used to work as a doctor. Lorraine recounts the story twenty-five years ago when a patient named Parker Crane, who was admitted for trying to castrate himself, had assaulted a then-young Josh. She saw Parker some days later and when she asked a nurse why he was out of bed, the nurse was confused, then stunned. She then told Lorraine that he had jumped to his death the day before. The group goes to the Crane family home where Lorraine is attacked by the spirit of Parker's mother, Michelle, who calls herself "Mother Mortis". She is the spirit Carl had summoned and mistakenly believed to be Elise. The group finds a secret room, containing numerous corpses, a black wedding gown, and newspaper clippings. Carl touches the gown and discovers Parker had been a serial killer known as "The Bride in Black,” who kidnapped and murdered 15 women while dressed as a woman. Parker had been forced to kill his victims at the behest of his mother's spirit.  Josh's body begins to slowly deteriorate, the longer Parker’s dead soul occupies it, and Renai realizes Josh is possessed. Lorraine insists that they all get away from Josh. Carl, Specs, and Tucker arrive to drug him but he gains the upper hand and incapacitates them, instead. Carl awakens in the spirit realm of The Further, where he meets the spirits of the real Josh and Elise. The time moves non-chronologically there, and Josh is able to communicate with himself as a child to locate Parker's house in The Further.  Meanwhile in the physical world, the possessed Josh ambushes Lorraine and Renai. After locking Lorraine in a closet, Josh pursues Renai, and attempts to strangle her. He is then hit over the head by Dalton, who has just returned home with Foster. Renai escapes to the basement with the children and Dalton voluntarily enters The Further to help his father. There, Josh and the others find Parker's house where they witness Michelle abusing him and forcing him to act like a girl. Elise saves Josh and appears to destroy Michelle's spirit, which stops the possessed Josh from murdering his family in the real world.  Carl and Josh escape and Dalton leads them back to the living world, allowing Josh to finally regain control of his body. The Lambert family is finally reunited, with Josh and Dalton once again having their memories suppressed by Carl.  Some time later, Specs and Tucker arrive at the house of a family whose daughter, Allison, is in an inexplicable coma. No one but Allison's younger sister can see Elise's spirit, who is first seen standing behind Specs and Tucker, due to the potential ability of astral projection. Elise’s spirit then passes between them and enters Allison's room. There, a terrified-looking Elise is confronted by an unseen figure, behind Allison, as a creaking sound is heard.