Three years after the first film, Nick, Dale, and Kurt invent a car wash-inspired shower head, the "Shower Buddy". They are approached by Bert Hanson and his son Rex, and Bert agrees to invest if they can make 100,000 units.  With a business loan, the trio outfit a warehouse, producing the quota. However, Bert backs out, as he never signed an agreement, and tells them that he plans to take their inventory in foreclosure and sell them (renamed as the "Shower Pal") himself, leaving them in debt $500,000 with their outstanding loan.  Seeking financial advice, the three visit Nick's imprisoned former boss, Dave Harken, who says they have no feasible legal way to recover their losses. They then resolve to kidnap Rex for ransom. Seeking "Motherfucker" Jones' help, he suggests keeping the victim unconscious the entire kidnapping. Their ransom note asks for $500,000. They go to the office of Dale's former boss, Dr. Julia Harris, to steal nitrous oxide. While there, Kurt and Dale are almost caught by members of Julia's sex addiction support group; once they leave, Nick distracts Julia, allowing Dale and Kurt to escape.  At Rex's, while hiding in the closet, Dale accidentally knocks them out with the gas. Waking up in the morning, Rex is gone. Returning to the warehouse, they find him tied up in their trunk. Getting out, he reveals he found them in his closet, but staged his own kidnapping. Rex sent the ransom note to Bert, increasing the ransom to $5 million. The three doubt Rex's plan, but he threatens to go to the police if they back out. They call Bert to inform him of Rex's kidnapping, threatening to kill him if the police are summoned. However the police, led by Detective Hatcher, subsequently arrive at the warehouse to question the suspects.  When the police leave, Rex breaks down when he finds out Bert cares more about his money than him. Now sympathetic, the trio agrees to do the fake kidnapping together. They form a plan to outsmart the police and get the ransom money using untraceable phones, a basement garage to block out any tracking signal, and Kurt disguised as Bert. While the plan is in motion, the trio realize Kurt mistakenly left Bert his own phone instead of the untraceable one to give Bert instructions. Nevertheless they use Kurt's phone to give. Before leaving, Julia arrives, demanding Dale sleep with her or she will report them for breaking into her office. Dale's wife Stacy, with their three daughters, unexpectedly arrives. Believing he is cheating with Julia, she storms off. Dale angrily locks Julia in the bathroom so they can leave.  In the basement garage, they demand Bert give them the money and the cell phone. However, Bert is killed by Rex, who reveals that, when his father did not care about him, he decided to kill him, framing them to inherit everything. As they are pursued by the police, Jones arrives. Anticipating they would be killed, he was going to take the ransom money himself.  Jones drives them to the warehouse so they can prove their innocence. Upon arrival, he escapes with the money and the police find Rex tied up. Before they arrest the trio, Kurt's phone rings in Rex's pocket; the police recognize the ringtone as that left to Bert by the kidnappers. When Rex claims the phone is his, Hatcher asks why he did not call the police if he had a phone, so he takes him hostage. When Dale attempts to attack Rex, Rex shoots him. Hatcher subdues and arrests him, thanks to the distraction.  Dale wakes up in the hospital. As Dale helped save Hatcher's life, the charges were dropped. Julia helped with Stacy, although hints at having raped him during his coma and promises to have sex with his wife as well. In the end, their business goes into foreclosure but Harken buys it, allowing the trio to stay employed. Jones, meanwhile, uses the ransom money to invest in Pinkberry.