An Indian couple is killed by their babysitter Lisa (Lee Kuhn) and she takes their daughter with her in a car. At the petrol pump, Devi (Anusha) notices Lisa's suspicious behaviors and sees the girl asking for help in the back seat of the car. Devi alerts the police, and Lisa is thus arrested.  Sam, a successful neurosurgeon, and Devi, a bold reporter working for a renowned Tamil magazine, are a happily married Indian couple living in San Francisco. They live normal lives in the company of friends Vishwa and his girlfriend Lakshmi. One day, Sam comes across Rajan, who claims to be an astrophysicist working for NASA, and Rajan hands him his wallet that he had lost in a bar. Sam then meets Rajan in a bar, and Rajan tells him that his next surgery is going to be a failure. Sam performs surgery on a girl, and the surgery turns out to be a success. Unfortunately later that day, the girl dies, thus upsetting Sam. Rajan claims to have extrasensory perception (ESP) and can predict the future with uncanny precision. Sinisterly enough, all his predictions turn out to be true, and Sam, who is a rational person, begins to believe him.  At one point, Rajan informs Sam that he would die in less than a week: on 10 August 2007. Sam seeks solace to his friend Vishwa, who advises him to not believe Rajan. On 9 August, Devi survives a car accident with minor injuries, but she loses her baby. The couple then returns home. A few hours before 10 August, Lisa enters Sam's house with a gun and tries to kill him. Chris, a detective, tries to enter the house to save Sam, but Lisa shoots Chris. Sam manages to unarm Lisa. Devi takes Lisa's gun, but she accidentally shoots Sam. Chris shoots Lisa dead and succumbs to his injury. Devi takes an injured Sam, and Rajan, who arrives with his car at that moment, takes Sam to his car. Vishwa, who comes from nowhere, knocks out Rajan with a golf club.  Later, it is revealed that Rajan's real name is Gowtham and he is married to Lisa. Rajan and Lisa were involved in child trafficking. When Lisa was arrested because of Devi, Rajan decided to take revenge on her. To do this, he befriended Sam, posed as a scientist, and made him believe that he had ESP. Rajan had done everything to make his predictions true. He then planned to kill Devi and frame Sam for the murder. Meanwhile, Vishwa sent his friend Chris, a private detective, to follow Rajan and Vishwa and discovered Rajan's plan. Rajan is finally arrested for his crime.  One year later, on 10 August 2008, Sam, the pregnant Devi, Vishwa, and Lakshmi place flowers on the grave of the detective Chris, who had sacrificed his life that day. The film ends with Rajan watching them at the cemetery.