In 2008, CIA agent Peter Devereaux supervises a young operative, David Mason, during a protective mission in Montenegro. Mason disobeys Devereaux's orders not to fire.  He shoots and kills an assassin but also kills a child.  In 2013, Devereaux is retired in Lausanne, Switzerland. His former boss, John Hanley, arrives and convinces him to extract Natalia Ulanova, the aide of Russian President-elect and former Army General Arkady Fedorov. Ulanova breaks into Fedorov's safe and copies old photos depicting his war crimes. She contacts the CIA extraction team, and escapes. Fedorov alerts the FSB, who pursue her through the streets of Moscow until Devereaux rescues her. She gives him a name, Mira Filipova, which he relays to Hanley. The CIA team, co-ordinated by Hanley, is unaware of Devereaux's presence.  The station chief, Perry Weinstein, gives the order to kill Ulanova, which Mason does. A dying Ulanova hands Devereaux her phone containing the photos. As the CIA team leaves the parking lot, Devereaux kills everyone in the squad until he faces Mason at gunpoint. The two separate without shooting. It is revealed that Devereaux and Ulanova were involved before. Hanley is detained for interrogation.  Meanwhile, New York Times journalist Edgar Simpson tracks down refugee case worker Alice Fournier and requests her assistance to write an exposé of Fedorov's war crimes during the Second Chechen War. Alexa, an assassin, arrives in Belgrade, and finds out that Fournier will meet Simpson in a cafe. Devereaux also arrives in Belgrade, Serbia then heads to Hanley's house and finds Fournier as Filipova's only known contact. He arrives at the cafe and rescues Fournier from both Alexa and Mason's team.  Fournier says that Filipova pretended to Fedorov to be mute. She actually spoke Russian and overheard Fedorov's conversations, including the 'false flag' conspiracy to bomb a Russian Army building to initiate war and seizure of Chechen oil fields. A former Fedorov associate, Denisov, confirms the conspiracy and reveals the CIA's involvement. Devereaux sends Fournier away.  Fedorov arrives in Belgrade for an energy conference. Fournier meets Simpson at his apartment where Alexa attacks them and kills him; but Fournier escapes. Devereaux infiltrates the CIA site where Hanley is being held; and Hanley claims Weinstein aided Fedorov and reveals that Fournier is actually Filipova. Mason also discovers the real Fournier died years ago and Filipova stole her identity. Filipova, disguised as a prostitute, goes to Fedorov's hotel room. It is revealed that during the war as a teenager, Filipova's family was murdered in front of her by Fedorov, who then held her captive as a sex slave for two years. She surprises Fedorov but is unable to kill him as he attacks her; Devereaux ascends the stairs in the Hotel, shoots the bodyguards, and saves her.  Devereaux interrogates Fedorov, demanding to know the name of the CIA operative involved in the operation. Fedorov, filmed by Filipova's phone, admits it was Hanley, not Weinstein; and Filipova confirms it. Mason arrives at the hotel but Devereaux and Filipova escape after he knocks out Mason and leaves him Fedorov's recorded confession. However, when Mason and Celia, his CIA partner, arrive in Langley to present the evidence, they realize that Weinstein has been replaced by Hanley.  Devereaux calls his and Ulanova's daughter, Lucy; Hanley answers the phone, having kidnapped her. Devereaux convinces Filipova to wait for him at a train station. There, she goes to a public computer to write her story regarding Fedorov. Devereaux meets with Hanley and Mason, lying that Filipova is waiting at a bus station. Mason is tasked by Hanley to recover her. Alexa finds Filipova at the station, but she escapes and knocks Alexa unconscious before finishing the expose and sending it to the press. Hanley reveals his intention to blackmail Fedorov after he becomes the President, forcing Russia to join NATO against the Middle-East. Celia finds the kidnappers' location and informs Mason, who rescues Lucy instead. He returns and helps Devereaux kill Hanley's men and subdue Hanley. Devereaux reunites with Lucy and together they find Filipova, whereupon all three leave on the train.  Later, Filipova testifies at the International Criminal Court against Fedorov, annulling his candidacy. Fedorov is later shot in the head by an unknown sniper on his yacht.