Four astronautsCaptain Theo Cooper, Dr. Emily McTier, Bug Kieslowski, and Cole Dvorakbegin a 400-day-long simulation on Earth intended to study the long-term effects of space travel.  As their time underground grinds on, the crew begins to deal with extreme psychological effects like paranoia and hallucination. The team settles deeper into their separate spaces, until a disheveled man finds his way into their simulated space ship. After his escape, the crew decides to exit and explore the surface world, which they discover is now dark, windy, desolate, forbidding, and covered with dust.  After a long walk with minor incidents, they discover the town "Tranquillity", which is inhabited and has electricity. A man named Zell invites them into his diner and tells them the moon had been struck by something which created an enormous dust cloud now covering the Earth, blocking the sun.  Dvorak scoffs at this suggestion, still believing they are in a simulation, and leaves to go to the local bar, followed by the rest of the crew. After a few drinks, Dvorak leaves the bar with a young woman without telling the others. The other three return to the diner, where Zell has offered them a place to sleep.  Bug takes first watch duty and soon begins hallucinating that he follows his son Sam but stomps across Zell, where the scene ends. Soon, McTier and Cooper wake up alone. When they ask Zell about their missing friends, he insists that Cooper and McTier arrived alone. Suspecting danger, the pair leaves the diner and unsuccessfully looks for their friends.  The pair returns to the ship and, as Cooper closes the entrance hatch, he discovers that they were being followed by Zell and two other men. Cooper and McTier manage to neutralize their attackers.  The very moment Zell dies, the 400 days have just passed, and they are informed that the simulation has ended with great success. The entrance hatch opens, and bright light shines down. Cooper and McTier grab each other's hands and anxiously await what happens next, but the film ends without showing that.