A woman, named Sylvia, being kept prisoner in a dungeon, breaks her chains and escapes, but falls into a deep trap-hole outside, breaking her leg. She is taken inside and “prepared” with seasonings and vegetables before being roasted alive in an oven.  At “The Gingerbread House”, a pie and pastry shop run by an older woman named Lilith, employee Gretel Grimm is hosting a private family dinner after hours for her twin brother, Hansel, their widowed father, Brandon and his girlfriend, Ruby Lumiers. Brandon reveals he intends to marry Ruby and that they plan to sell their house and travel across the world. This infuriates Hansel who storms out into the nearby woods and eventually Gretel follows him, finding him in a bear trap. She spots a nearby cabin and to Gretel's surprise, Lilith answers her knock at the door and invites them inside. Gretel notices several very old family pictures up of Lilith and her children, twin boys John and Bobby and Abigail, who died as an infant. Lilith feeds Hansel and gives Gretel some tea and they soon fall into a deep sleep. Gretel wakes up the next morning with a headache in Lilith's bed with Lilith sitting beside her. Lilith tells Gretel that a neighbour took Hansel to the hospital and suggests she shower to feel better.  Hansel wakes up in a dungeon with three others, Kevin, Dana and Jane, all chained to the walls. The now brutish John and Bobby bring in a tray piled with cakes and pastries and pull Dana out with them as they leave. They prepare her on a human spit roast in the oven. After Gretel showers, she is confronted by Lilith, who offers her the deed to The Gingerbread House, telling Gretel she intends to leave the bakery to her. When Gretel agrees, Lilith jerks the deed from her hand “accidentally”, giving Gretel a paper cut. A drop of her blood falls onto the deed, “signing” it unintentionally in blood, to Lilith's delight. Gretel notices a bloody fingernail on the floor and finds a trapdoor to an underground dungeon, hearing Hansel calling for her. Having been found out, Lilith has her sons force Gretel to join in on “family dinner”, where she serves the freshly cooked Dana. Gretel stabs John with her knife, causing Lilith to throw her into the dungeon.  Bobby takes Jane out of the dungeon to prepare her, but Hansel is able to soon pick the lock. Kevin decides to save himself and escapes while Hansel and Gretel decide to save Jane. Hansel and Gretel overpower Bobby, killing him. They free Jane but John finds Bobby's body, dons a gas mask, and fills the dungeon with hallucinogenic gas. Hansel, Gretel and Jane each have their own horrific hallucinations. Meanwhile, Brandon has since alerted Sheriff Woody Mekes about his children's disappearance and he begins searching for Lilith. Brandon and Ruby search the forest and eventually find Lilith's cabin. Brandon recognizes Lilith's car outside, but Lilith attacks him with a pitchfork, then kills Ruby with a machete. In the dungeon, John kills Jane, but Hansel and Gretel crawl inside the oven and through a small vent shaft while John gives chase. They make it outside and find Lilith having just murdered Ruby. Brandon attacks her, allowing Hansel and Gretel to escape with John still pursuing. As they are running away, they encounter Sheriff Mekes, who has accidentally hit and killed Kevin while he was on the highway trying to flag someone down. Mekes shoots and kills John but Lilith emerges from the forest and kills Mekes with an arrow. She forces the siblings back to the cabin and tries once more to convince Gretel to join her, but Gretel stabs her in the face with Ruby's silver cross necklace. She and Hansel run to the dungeon, luring Lilith into the oven and trapping her before she realizes it. Gretel turns the oven on, burning Lilith alive. She and Hansel narrowly escape as the hallucinogenic gas ignites and the cabin explodes.  Later, Gretel is in Lilith's bakery when Hansel stops in to let her know that their father is being released from the hospital. She says she will meet him and he leaves. Gretel goes to the door and flips the closed sign to open, then returns to the counter and takes a bite of a meat pie, smiling menacingly.