The film opens with a montage of videos depicting Skylar "Sky" and Dan's happy moments together. In the present, Skylar and Dan are celebrating their wedding. Tommy Covington is shooting a documentary as a favor for Dan. During the wedding, Tommy is in an elevator with Skylar's parents, who are Christian. However, before answering a question, the air turns cold and Skylar's parents suddenly drop dead, their eyes white. When Tommy exits the elevator, he finds the main floor has descended into high chaos, as others have dropped dead with the same white eyes. As Tommy and Jack exit the building to investigate a tremor, they find the city up in flames as planes fall from the sky and explode upon impact.  When racing back to the building to find a safer way out, an ear-splitting sound, similar to a trumpet, echoes across the building. After this, loud claps of thunder and intense lightning are present. When Tommy, Dan, Skylar and Jack exit the building safely, Skylar theorizes that they are experiencing the Rapture, as the believers are raptured and the non-believers are left behind. Tommy dismisses this, as what he believes what is happening right now is related to science. Skylar then declares that they need to get to a place of safety, as the events will grow worse and worse as time goes on.  Afterward, monstrous-sized hail rains down on the town. The four proceed to seek shelter in a library. Tommy encounters Sam in the library. Skylar finds a Bible and tells Sam, Dan, Jack, and Tommy a verse related to the Rapture, the First Trumpet. The five proceed to go to a nearby church for safety. Nearing the church, a demonic being snatches Skylar out of Dan's grip and they find her on the road but heavily injured by the entity. Upon reaching the church, the group is let in and led to the sanctuary for safety by Pastor Shay.  When walking in the church, Jack reunites with Allison while Dan tries to comfort Skylar while she is being healed. When Tommy asks what's going on, Shay explains that they are living in the Rapture. More survivors are let inside the church, but one of them is pregnant. The pregnant woman does give birth, but her baby doesn't show signs of crying or breathing, indicating that the baby is stillborn. When Tommy asks why God kills these people, Shay explains that God raptures the believers' souls while leaving their mortal bodies behind. Shay explains that the reason why he wasn't raptured was that he didn't display real faith in Christianity. A survivor tries to get into the church, only for a demonic being to kill him, while cracking a church window in the process. Sam records Tommy say a message to Allison just in case Tommy doesn't make it. A news article reveals that the Rapture has occurred worldwide, with children, infants and Christians getting raptured, with scientists labeling it as "Instant Death Syndrome" and that unusual weather has been occurring worldwide. Tommy shows Shay, Jack, and Allison a video of Skylar getting snatched by the unknown force, with Shay explaining that the Fifth Trumpet was played. Frame by frame, they see the face of a Fallen.  As Shay tries to lift up the spirits of the people, The Fallen start to attack the church, forcing the congregation to flee to the church's basement. Shay sacrifices himself to save the others. When morning comes, Tommy, Jack, Sam, Allison, and Dan carry Skylar to the hospital to search for medicine but she dies of her injuries that contained a powerful demonic venom. Heartbroken, Dan rants at God and he is impaled by a tentacle from a demon and dragged into the sky. Allison is also killed.  After a long while of walking, Tommy, Jack, and Sam reach the relief camp, where Sam shows them a video of Allison choosing God moments before she was killed. In grief, Jack gets baptized before being killed, and demons attack the relief camp as "Amazing Grace" plays over a loudspeaker. Tommy realizes the demons are drawn to faith believers. Sam chooses God, and she and Tommy are killed, as demons descend from the sky.