Naomi and Ely have been best friends and neighbors in the same apartment building in New York City for years. Ely is gay, often having casual hook-ups with other guys, while Naomi is heterosexual and has recently begun dating "Bruce 2," although she has always been secretly in love with Ely.  Naomi and Ely have a "No Kiss List" where the guys on the list are forbidden to them both. In the beginning of the film, they add Gabriel, their young and handsome doorman, to the list. Everything is going well until Ely isn't always available when Naomi needs him. She has been struggling to help her mother recover from her father leaving after having an affair. Furthermore, Naomi hasn't accepted that Ely is gay; she has always fantasized about him falling in love with and marrying her one day.  Frustrated about the hopelessness of the situation, she lashes out at Ely's promiscuity. He replies that Naomi, who is still a virgin, is just taking her sexual frustration out on him.  One night, Naomi brings Ely along on a date with Bruce 2. After a fun night out, Naomi wants to go home but Ely pushes her to go home with Bruce to have sex, which she reluctantly agrees. They awkwardly make out in Bruce's dorm room until they are accidentally interrupted. A few days later, Ely discovers Bruce 2 waiting for Naomi in the hallway and offers him a drink while he waits. In Ely's bedroom, Bruce discovers his X-Men comics and they start bonding. They kiss spontaneously, but Ely immediately regrets it and apologizes.  While Naomi and Ely are shopping for Halloween costumes the next day, Ely confesses the kiss but Naomi brushes it off. She then discovers a mixtape in her mail from an admirer. While they are getting ready for the Halloween party, Bruce visits Ely, admitting he enjoyed their kiss and wants to pursue it further. Naomi arrives and Ely quickly hides Bruce in the closet while he hastens her out. He then goes back claiming he "forgot" something to tell Bruce to wait for him. Bruce agrees and gives him Orbit gum, to add to the alibi that he forgot something. Naomi remembers that Bruce 2 chews sugar free gum and Ely doesn't. She then figures out that Bruce 2 is in Ely's apartment and it wasn't just a kiss.  This results in a feud between them. She confides in her friend Robin, admitting she is more upset about Ely's betrayal than Bruce's. She then creates a list of things and places for Ely to avoid in order for them to stay away from each other. Ely breaks one of her requests, which results in another messy dispute. Naomi realizes that her dream to be with Ely will never come true.  During their time apart, Naomi grows closer to Robin and discovers that the mixtape was from Gabriel, who admits he's had a crush on her since they'd met. They slowly start a relationship and Naomi applies for a job to help her mother. She also convinces her mother to let go of her father, just as she is letting go of Ely. Naomi admits that although her life is better, she still misses her best friend and reaches out to Ely. They reconcile, Naomi finally accepting his sexuality. Ely, meanwhile, is settling down with Bruce 2. The film ends with Naomi stating that relationships and friendships are different kinds of love, but are still love and therefore, can have the same effects. She then says that everyone can have more than one special person in their life.