The Big Bang occurs, and the first stars are formed after the mixture of elements. Gravity then expands the universe to seemingly infinite proportions, and galaxies begin to form. Some galaxies form so close together that they are attracted to each other by gravity and collide, fusing together. However, despite its wondrous creation, gravity also creates mayhem in the form of a supermassive or stellar mass black hole, a region where not even light can escape its attraction, making its gravitational singularity invisible to outsiders.  Throughout the universe, conflicts between energy and gravity repeat every time, making a star die as a supernova when it runs out of fuel, causing new stars to be born. A particular protoplanetary dust cloud collapses, causing the birth of the Sun 5,264 mya (5.264 bya). The Solar System is then formed; among its planets is the Earth. A protoplanet, Theia, collides with Earth, forming the Moon.  Earth is initially in the Hadean and Archean Eons, during which it is covered in lava and ravaged by volcanoes. However, microorganisms still manage to form below the ocean. Although still not known, the latest theories suggest that chemicals from submarine volcanoes make the right recipe to create life. 2,490 mya (2.49 bya), the oxygenation of the atmosphere begins, allowing animals to arise. The Proterozoic Eon begins 1,402 mya (1.402 bya), but its benefits are delayed by the Snowball Earth, the biggest ice age in the planet's history. After the ice age ends, the benefits of the eon come to life; animals start to literally be born. More advanced plants start to evolve, followed by dinosaurs in the Triassic Period, which then go extinct during the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. More plants evolve rapidly, followed by the rise of the mammals, especially primates such as Australopithecus afarensis, Homo erectus, Neanderthals, Homo sapiens, and Novus homo. A human eye, representing the entirety of humanity, is shown in just a fraction (1/24) of a second.