In New York City, scientist Linda (Brie Larson) produces the genetically modified rice 9 with her father Eric (Scott Bakula) for the company Mogil. One of Mogil's executives, Evelyn (Tyne Daly), in a press meeting, celebrates the rice's nutritional value as well as resistance to drought and pests. CEO Gurgon (Donald Sutherland) hires Linda as the new sales representative.  Gurgon plans to sell 9 in Bilari, India in order to corner the nation's rice market, and demands Linda convince the town's farmers to grow it. Although initially skeptical out of her ignorance of the country's culture, Gurgon threatens to cut lab funding if she doesn't do it. Linda meets a local son of a farmer Rajit (Utkarsh Ambudkar) on the train to Bilari, and William (Saahil Sehgal), an Agricultural Office representative, when she arrives.  William, in addition to flirting with Linda, is interested in the Mogil deal, wanting it to go through to be able to live in New York City and gain appreciation from his father. Rajit, to further his college education, plans to make money by selling a pest-deterring stink weed.  Linda continues to view more of India by riding in a car. However, the vehicle breaks down and the phone dies, meaning she has to walk out of her comfort zone and encounter Indian culture in person. There, she again meets Rajit, who initially, for fun, messes with her lack of knowledge of the Indian lifestyle. William invites Linda to a family dinner, which involves another accidental encounter with Rajit as well as more bonding between them.  Mogil has set a "Rice Exchange Day" for the local farmers to make contracts, and trade in their old seeds, with the company. They are quickly convinced of Linda's rice, particularly its ability to deter beetles, except Rajit. Suspecting a big multi-corporation wouldn't provide genetically-modified rice in good faith, he instructs the other farmers to not sign with Mogil right away, and schedules a contest the day before Rice Exchange Day for the farmers to determine if the rice or Rajit's stink weed is better. Rajit sets it up without informing Linda.  William, reading the contracts, is alarmed the farmers' work with the contract will be permanent, as well as the fact that 9's grain are sterile, meaning seeds would have to be bought annually. When meeting with Gurgon and Evelyn, they attempt to change William's mind by presenting the corporation as altruistic, and offer him a trip to New York.  William and Linda go out to a dance club during the night. Rajit and his sister Sita (Lakshmi Manchu) sneak in to dance with her, only for William to bribe the bouncer to kick them out. Linda stumbles on Rajit's farm and finds out about the contest. Initially she's mad at Rajit until her rice outperforms his weed at the contest. Linda indicates a lack of awareness towards the sustainability of the methods that will result from Mogil's contracts, which enrages Rajit. William bribes the authorities to arrest him over accusations of trashing Linda's lab.  The Rice Exchange Day goes as planned, until Linda publicly states the truth to the farmers. A revolt against Mogil, led by her, ensues. The local cops are also on the farmers' side and release Rajit, and William stalls the train out of a change of heart. As the train starts moving again, Linda uncouples it, William and Eric burn the contracts, and Rajit halts the train by parking his car on the tracks. Mogil's business plan is ruined, the farmers have their rice back, and Rajit and Linda are together.