Four childhood friends from Brooklyn — Sam, Archie, Paddy, and Billy — are now older. Sam and his wife Miriam live in Naples, Florida. Archie, a twice-divorced Vietnam veteran, lives in New Jersey. Paddy lives alone in his Brooklyn apartment, bitter since the death of his beloved wife, Sophie. Billy is a successful entrepreneur in Malibu, who lives with his 31-year-old girlfriend Lisa. Shortly after proposing to Lisa (at a funeral), Billy finds an old bottle of scotch he and his friends stole in their childhood days, and calls Sam and Archie, who immediately propose a bachelor party for Billy in Las Vegas. After being given permission by Miriam to cheat on her, Sam collects Archie, whose ongoing health issues cause his son to be concerned. They convince a reluctant Paddy to join them and they fly off to rendezvous with Billy in Vegas.  Billy and Paddy get into a heated argument about Billy's failure to attend Sophie's funeral.  They visit the Aria where the wedding will be held, and are attracted to the lounge by the singing of Diana. The five share a drink and convince Diana to join them for festivities.  While waiting to get rooms, Archie goes to a blackjack table and buys $15,000 worth of chips with his pension money. When Paddy and Sam return, they find that Archie is up $102,000. They quickly leave the table in fear of being accused of card counting. Billy tours the wedding chapel with Diana, and becomes smitten with her. The quartet later become judges of a swimsuit competition. They are then confronted by the casino manager, who offers to compensate the group with his largest penthouse suite in hopes that Archie will stay and spend his winnings at the hotel. Billy suggests they open the old bottle of scotch to celebrate, but Paddy storms off. That night, the remaining three go to the hotel's nightclub where they enjoy a night of drinking and dancing. Sam meets a young maid of honour from a bachelorette party who expresses her attraction for him.  The following day, while the others are recovering, Paddy visits Diana and tells her that he and Billy were both in love with Sophie when they were younger and she picked Paddy. Diana tries to convince him to stop grieving and move on with life because Sophie would want it. Paddy joins Billy at their pool cabana and admits he needs to move on from Sophie's passing while also being upset with Billy for marrying a woman he does not truly love. Sam and Archie decide to throw a massive bachelor party for Billy in their suite that night. They prepare for the party and invite several people including a bachelorette party from the nightclub, exotic dancers, a band of drag queens, and cast members of Zarkana.  Billy visits Diana. She admits that she is fond of him, and asks if he truly loves Lisa. As they walk along The Strip, Billy tells Diana that Paddy gave Sophie an ultimatum to choose either Billy or him, and she secretly chose Billy first; but Billy told Sophie that she was meant to be with Paddy.  Paddy tells Billy he invited Diana to the party because he likes her and wants to start anew after Sophie's passing, but realizes Billy likes her too. When Diana arrives, Billy pushes Paddy into the pool, and takes Diana upstairs to tell her to give Paddy a chance. She says she feels like she is being treated like Sophie, and "gifted" by Billy to Paddy, which Paddy overhears. Paddy is devastated to learn this and throws the old bottle of scotch in the trash as he leaves the party. Meanwhile, Sam prepares to cheat on his wife with the young maid of honour but cannot bring himself to do it.  The next morning, Paddy confronts Billy at the pool. He informs him that no one could tell Sophie who to love, and that they shared a beautiful life together. He tells Billy to call off the wedding. As Lisa and her bridesmaids arrive, Paddy pushes Billy into the pool and tells Lisa that Billy is calling off the wedding.  Billy admits his fear of getting old and being alone. He goes to the lounge where Diana is singing and reveals his feelings for her. The guys finally decide to crack open the old bottle of scotch for a toast; however to their surprise, all but Paddy find the taste to be repulsive.  A few months later, Billy and Diana call Archie and Paddy to announce they are getting married. They try to call Sam but he is unable to answer the phone as he is busy in bed with his wife.