Rudolph, not satisfied with being a "novelty act" performing tricks with his nose, travels with Hermey, now a dentist, to the Island of Misfit Toys to give King Moonracer a root canal dental treatment. A storm sends Rudolph and Hermey to Castaway Cove where Rudolph considers having his nose made more normal-looking by a hippopotamus named Queen Camilla, being warned that if he gets a normal nose, he won't be able to lead the sleigh anymore on foggy nights which could put Santa's deliveries in potential danger.  Meanwhile, the evil Toy Taker is stealing all of the toys from the island, including Santa's workshop, claiming that he's saving them from the inevitable fact that children eventually outgrow their toys and throw them away. Rudolph has a plan to foil the Toy Taker's by disguising themselves as toys.  The Toy Taker's blimp arrives and manages to steal them along with the Misfit Toys, all except for Bumble, who is too big to fit into the blimp so he follows on a floating iceberg. Rudolph tries to talk to a new misfit toy, a kite who is scared of heights and wakes him up from his hypnosis, but fails. The Toy Taker hears all the chatter, and realizing there are intruders, catches Rudolph, Clarice, Yukon, and Hermey.  They head back into the blimp, with Yukon chasing after the Toy Taker, Hermey piloting the blimp, and Rudolph and Clarice doing their best to wake up the toys from their hypnosis. Yukon finally chases the Toy Taker up to the top of the blimp. When a boomerang who doesn't come back swoops by Yukon, he loses his balance and falls. Rudolph and Clarice confront the Toy Taker, with Rudolph's nose blinding him during the confrontation.  The Toy Taker flees and parachutes his way down to Yukon's peppermint mine in hopes of escaping Rudolph and Clarice. Due to the holes in the blimp, Hermey loses control. Luckily, Bumble is there to save the blimp before any further damage can be made. The reindeer are still chasing the Toy Taker in the mine and Rudolph captures him. However, the Toy Taker tries to escape again, but Yukon manages to lasso him up with Hermey's dental floss.  Upon removing the Toy Taker's coat and hat, it is revealed he is none other than a teddy bear named Mr. Cuddles. He apologizes and tells them he used to belong to a boy named Steven, who outgrew him and threw him away. After this, he became the Toy Taker to save the other toys from also being thrown away. Santa explains that while it is true that some children outgrow their toys, he knows Steven is looking for him.  Rudolph and his friends agree to bring Mr. Cuddles to Queen Camilla to repair him and cheer him up. Rudolph also considers about turning his nose normal, but decides to keep it the way it is. Santa leaves to deliver the presents and Mr. Cuddles gets returned to his owner. Santa tells him that Steven didn't mean to throw him away, but was saving him as a family gift. He then places him in the bed of Steven's new daughter who awakens and cuddles him. Steven walks into the room to check on his daughter and smiles as Santa and Rudolph fly off into the night.