Lilian is a budding artist living in Brooklyn after her father abruptly moved to Paris with his girlfriend. After her boyfriend Nate dumps her for being immature and unmotivated, Lilian moves in with family friends Julia and Don.  While Don, a musician, is warm and friendly, Julia, a famous and reclusive novelist, immediately clashes with Lilian. After Don disappears following a fight with Julia, Julia sequesters herself in her room and begins communicating with Lilian through messages in Lilian's private journal.  After running into Nate and his co-worker, Laura, a filmmaker, Lilian claims she is working on a documentary about Julia, to impress her. Rather than ask Julia for permission, Lilian begins scouting for cameramen and uses her father's connections to contact famous writers and interview them about Julia.  While interviewing Jonathan Ames, Lilian learns that her father is back in New York City but has not contacted her. She also learns that Julia is using her as possible writing inspiration and has used her as inspiration before, when she was a child.  Julia accidentally discovers that Lilian is making a documentary when Lilian is late to meet her cameraman, Sol, and he enthusiastically tells Julia everything. Julia cuts off all communication with Lilian. Depressed, Lilian makes a move on Julia's reclusive dog walker George, who rebuffs her.  Lilian finally makes contact with her father who does not tell her that he and his girlfriend are engaged and expecting a child, despite Lilian having been made aware by other people.  Lilian decides to try to make amends with Julia by writing her an apology note and finally reading her most famous work, Good Posture. Lilian obtains a job and decides to leave Julia's home. Before she leaves, Julia allows her into her room indicating she has forgiven Lilian.  The following morning, as Lilian leaves, she sees Julia outside for the first time, walking her dog. Julia meets Don and the two walk towards the subway together, as Lilian walks in the other direction.