Sisters Tanzie and Ava are wealthy, spoiled Hollywood socialites who enjoy shopping and dating, paying little attention to their late father's company, Marchetta Cosmetics, run by co-founder and family friend Tommy Katzenbach. Tanzie is going to college soon and Ava is planning to announce her engagement with fiancée Mic.  A major media scandal breaks, involving disfigurement from Marchetta night cream. The girls and their father's reputation is destroyed, and Ava and Tanzie retreat to their mansion. While preparing a home spa treatment, Tanzie accidentally spills nail polish remover. Ava's lit cigarette is then dropped during an argument, starting a fire.  Ava saves their father's watch and her engagement party dress while Tanzie saves their TiVo box with recordings of her father talking about his cosmetics. Going to a hotel, they learn all their credit cards have been blocked, leaving them completely broke. They move in with their maid, and close family friend, Inez in her small apartment. While there, their car is stolen by two men whom they naively mistook for valets.  The next morning, Ava and Tanzie, without their car, take a bus and then walk the rest of the way to Ava's engagement party. They are refused entry, their friend Etienne ignores them, and they realize they were only liked for their money. Ava's fiancé Mic's agent Sol dumps her as she is now a "liability".  Tommy plans to persuade the board of directors to sell Marchetta Cosmetics to archrival Fabiella for $60 million (or $30 million each). The girls have 30 days until the stockholders meeting, when the deal will be made official.  The deal would mean they could return to their extravagant lifestyles, but they are depressed over their father's legacy being destroyed. After Tanzie's love interest Rick, the company's lab technician, helps them evade the press outside, Ava and Tanzie decide to become "private investigators" and approach free legal clinic lawyer Henry for help. He agrees, after initially refusing as they are not "underprivileged". Determined to restore their father's reputation, the sisters are determined to uncover the truth.  Watching the news, Tanzie recognizes a woman who accused Marchetta of leaving her disfigured as also in an eczema documentary on KLAE. Tanzie goes to the KLAE offices dressed provocatively and flirts with the receptionist, who allows her access to the file room. She manages to obtain the woman's address, before being arrested and put in jail for fraud and trespassing. Ava pawns her father's Rolex (her most treasured possession) to pay Tanzie's bail money after Henry helps her realize that family is more important than material things.  The woman, Margo Thorness, says that Marchetta paid for her cosmetic surgery for the supposed damage caused by Marchetta Everdew night cream. However, Ava and Tanzie learn from her neighbor that she lied, as she was born with a skin disease. The girls meet with the board of directors and successfully clear the Marchetta name, revealing that Tommy (their father's best friend and trustee of the company) was behind the scandal, as he had helped fabricate testimonials, and used money taken from the sisters' personal bank accounts. Tommy is promptly fired by Ava.  Six months later, the girls are running the company, with Ava as the new CEO and Tanzie studying while working as a chemist. Ava is now in a relationship with Henry, and Tanzie is now with Rick.