Emily, a 14-year-old aspiring concert violinist, spends her summer practicing for an important audition to get into the local youth symphony orchestra in Salt Lake City. Due to Emily's knack for keeping secrets, she also runs a secret-keeping booth, charging the neighborhood children fifty cents for advice as they divulge their personal secrets to her. Emily herself is harboring a secret from her friends: that she is adopted. At home, Emily's parents are expecting a baby, having been unable to conceive a child of their own until now. Her parents' excitement over the baby leaves Emily feeling jealous.  Meanwhile, 12-year-old Philip and his family move in next door to Emily. While helping unpack, Philip accidentally breaks one of his father's valuable chess pieces and is caught by Emily as he attempts to hide it in the garden. Emily and Philip get off to a rocky start when she charges him fifty cents to keep this incident a secret from his parents, but Philip begins to take an interest in her after watching her play the violin. Emily invites Philip over for afternoon tea and they bond over having a shared secret after they accidentally break two expensive china teacups. As Philip's crush grows, he begins taking piano lessons in an attempt to impress her.  David, Philip's 15-year-old brother, returns home early from tennis camp, having been expelled when he and other campers were involved in a car accident after having a few beers. Philip does not think it is a big deal, as David was not the driver and no one was legally drunk, but the woman in the other car was injured. Philip reveals David's secret to Emily in exchange for learning the meaning behind her secret greeting with her best friends. He is confused when Emily reacts angrily to what David did. Emily and David meet and are immediately attracted to each other, causing a jealous Philip to steal Emily's clients for his own secret-keeping booth. David tries to get closer to Emily, but she keeps her distance due to her knowledge of his secret. At the same time, the advice Emily gave to the neighborhood children starts to blow up in her face. She begins to unravel under the pressure of keeping all these secrets and it affects her violin playing.  At her mother's baby shower, David tries once again to talk to Emily and she reveals that she knows his secret. David confronts Philip, and an angry Philip reveals to Emily's best friends that she broke their secret greeting pact. After a heart-to-heart with her violin teacher Pauline, Emily resolves to stop keeping secrets. She goes to retrieve her violin that she left on the roof, but loses her balance and falls, necessitating a trip to the hospital and causing her to miss her audition. Feeling guilty, the brothers go to the audition on her behalf and manage to get Emily a place in the youth orchestra by showing the panelists a tape of her playing the violin. While she is in the hospital, her mother also gives birth to her new sister whom Emily names Grace. Emily tells her friends that she is adopted and that her birth parents were killed by a drunk driver when she was an infant. David finally understands why Emily was so upset at him and promises never to do something like that again. After she is released from the hospital, Emily and Philip reaffirm their friendship and he helps her close her secret-keeping booth for good. Philip gives Emily and David his blessing, and Emily and David share a kiss.