Krisha, a troubled woman in her sixties with a history of addiction, has been estranged from her family for many years; her son, Trey,  was raised by her sister, Robyn, for large parts of his life. Krisha has recently told her relatives that she is now reformed and sober, and that she wants to visit on Thanksgiving Day and cook dinner for the whole extended family. All that is implied: the movie starts with Krisha arriving at her sister's large house, where many family members are gathered, and greets them all warmly.  Krisha attempts to reconcile with Trey, expressing a desire to be part of his life again. He is cold and defensive, refusing even to look at her; as she attempts to coax a reaction out of him, he resists and leaves.  As the day progresses, it becomes clear that the family has clashing opinions of Krisha. While some, like Robyn, believe Krisha has turned her life around, others, including her brother-in-law, Doyle, remain skeptical and deride her assurances that she is sober. On Thanksgiving morning, Krisha's elderly mother arrives and is introduced to the newer members of the family. Although she is forgetful, she remembers each of the family members by name; upon being greeted by Krisha, however, she becomes confused and seems unable to remember her clearly. Krisha is visibly upset by this.  As the day progresses and she sees her son's closeness to her sister's family, Krisha starts to secretly return to her bathroom to abuse alcohol, prescription drugs, and illegal drugs in an attempt to cope. When it is time to remove the roasted turkey from the oven, she is drunk and out-of-control. She spills the roasting tray and the perfectly roasted turkey lands heavily on the kitchen floor. Most of the family is horrified and tries to help Krisha up from the floor and salvage the meal. Doyle only looks on and laughs.  Krisha sobers up, watching home videos Robyn has of Trey as a child. Waking from a stupor, she rings her boyfriend and leaves him a furious voicemail, telling him that she relied on him for support and that he abandoned her when she needed him. She then goes downstairs to find the rest of the family enjoying a toned-down version of Thanksgiving dinner without her. Robyn refuses to allow her to join the table and takes her out of the room. Robyn laments the fact that Krisha lied about her sobriety, telling Krisha that she defended her when other members of the family didn't want to invite her at all. Later, after looking through Trey's room and finding a bottle of vodka, a distraught and increasingly unhinged Krisha interrupts dinner once again, demanding that Trey tell her he loves her. When Robyn asks her to leave and Trey disowns her, the argument escalates and becomes violent, with Krisha breaking silverware and attacking Robyn as she is removed from the house. The film ends with an abrupt shot of Krisha looking into the camera, trying and failing to hold back tears.