Actress Candy Black was once a blockbuster comedic star, but after years of drug abuse and anger issues is considered difficult to work with. On the set of one of her movies, she refuses to work until her stand-in Paula reveals the director may replace her with Melissa McCarthy. During the scene, her co-star Jenna Jones hits her with a solid marble statue instead of a breakaway vase. In a rage, Black shatters an ashtray and a shard hits Jones' eye. The video goes viral, ruining her career.  Candy locks herself up in her Long Island mansion for five years, while facing many legal issues from her addictions and tax evasion. Her romantic pen pal relationship with Steve Grady, also passionate about Shaker carpentry is her one joy - however, she secretly writes as Cathy Tyler, her actual legal name. In May 2019, she is sentenced to months in rehab, jeopardizing their plan to finally meet. She asks her former manager Louis to find her former stand-in Paula, now a struggling actress living in her car. Inviting Paula to her mansion, Candy asks her to attend rehab for her. She agrees, only if Candy resumes acting, with Paula as her stand-in.  In rehab, Paula meets director's assistant Ingrid, who offers her a cameo in a reboot of their former collaboration Saddle Up. Upon release, Paula tells Cathy, but she refuses because filming conflicts with her first date with Steve. Desperate to resume work, Paula, as Steve, messages Cathy, claiming to be married and severing contact. Then as Cathy, attending her first date with Steve, initially planning to break up with him, but quickly falls for and begins dating him.  Paula convinces Cathy to appear in a series of six-figure talk show apology appearances. This puts Paula in contact with Louis (who doesn't know she's Paula), as well as their new publicist Simon. He asks her on a date and she accepts, but they are interrupted when Paula and Steve spot each other (Steve sees Cathy/Paula was Candy Black after watching her on a television interview). Paula and Steve go back to his apartment and have sex. Several days later, the Saddle Up offer is confirmed.  Paula drugs Cathy to host another date with Steve at the mansion, dumping her in the backyard. During the date, Steve admits he is actually Larry Cooper from Ann Arbor, Michigan, infamous for accidentally peeing on the New Orleans Holocaust Memorial while drunk. Cathy's high drug tolerance results in a quick recovery from being drugged, so she enters the mansion bathroom to vomit. Steve narrowly misses seeing her there before he leaves. Cathy and Paula then have a fight, leading to Paula dragging Cathy outside, locking her out, and getting the police to remove the 'crazed stalker'.  Cathy seeks help from Louis. However, when he discovers Paula is who's been making Candy Black's comeback, he drops her for Paula. Cathy then applies for a construction job as a carpenter, and breaks into the mansion to retrieve some certification papers. Steve spots Cathy, and recognizes her voice from the phone. Paula walks in behind him, and the three are in the same room for the first time. Confusion ensues over their respective secret identities, and Cathy realizes Paula sabotaged her relationship with Steve to further their career. Cathy storms out, and Steve dumps Paula to reunite with Cathy.  Steve and Cathy start building a relationship, while Paula films for the Saddle Up reboot as Candy Black. Uncomfortable doing the physical gags, Paula begs Cathy to resume working as Candy. She refuses Paula's offer, and after complimenting her Method acting skills over the past few months, she gut-punches her for trying to sabotage her and Steve. As Cathy goes inside, a group of teenagers take selfies next to a downed Paula.  One year later, Paula is successfully working as Candy Black and dating her publicist Simon. No longer living in her own shadow, Cathy and Steve have a happy, quiet, successful life as woodworkers in a Shaker community with her own business.