In 1943, during World War II, nine-year-old Molly McIntire lives in the fictional town of Jefferson, Illinois with her parents, James and Helen, and two older siblings, fourteen-year-old Jill and twelve-year-old Ricky. James is a doctor in the United States Army, while Helen is a stay-at-home mom. Molly is in the third grade at Willow Street School along with her two best friends, Linda and Susan. As Molly's tenth birthday nears, she dreams of having a princess-themed tea party inspired by Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret Rose of England, only to be disappointed as she learns that her family does not have the money nor rations to afford it.  James takes Molly to a Victory Dance contest at the local park where he gives her a locket. Later that night during an air raid drill, James reveals that he has decided to go to London to provide medical aid to soldiers and civilians. Molly is furious that her father is leaving the family and going to a "strange" and "unsafe" city. James comforts Molly by calling her his North Star and telling her to look at the stars to think of him. After James departs to Europe, Helen decides to enter the workforce to do her part for the war effort, taking a factory job at the fictional Jefferson Aircraft Plant. The McIntire's neighbor, Mrs. Gilford, begins coming over in the daytime to watch the children while Helen is away at work. Molly then decides she wants to be the school's "Miss Victory", the lead tap-dance performer in the school's Christmas Pageant. She struggles to improve her tap-dancing, but with the help of her teacher Ms. Campbell, she begins to see improvement.  Soon after, the McIntires take in a British girl named Emily Bennett. Molly is unaccepting of the McIntire's new guest while Jill insists she must learn to adapt to her new situation and do her part. Fascinated by Emily, Molly's friends Linda and Susan question Emily about her home in London; overwhelmed, Emily lies and says her parents are royalty, and that she lived in "Bennett Manor". At school, Emily becomes popular amongst the students, particularly with Molly's tap-dancing rival Allison Hargate. This causes Molly to resent her. The two later participate in a spelling bee together. Before a winner can be declared, a member of the Western Union arrives to inform Ms. Campbell, who is on the panel of judges, that her fiancé has been killed in the war.  Later, another air raid drill occurs, upsetting Emily as the McIntires shelter in the basement of their home. That night, Emily wakes up in the midst of a nightmare. She reveals to Molly that her street was bombed in The Blitz, destroying her parents' apartment and killing her mother. She says her father is a bus driver and that they lived above a candy shop, and that she was never really royalty. Molly forgives her and the two become friends.  After returning home from school one day, Molly finds her mother Helen making a casserole for Mrs. Gilford. She asks her mother why she is not at work, to which Helen replies that Mrs. Gilford's son has been killed in action. Empathetic, Molly helps her bake and deliver the casserole to Mrs. Gilford's house. Molly's Aunt Eleanor comes to stay with the McIntire's to help with the children and housework while Mrs. Gilford is grieving. Her stay is short-lived, though, as she eventually leaves for Texas to join the WASPs.  As Christmas nears, auditions for the role of "Miss Victory" conclude at school. Molly finds that she has been chosen for the lead role, but her excitement is short-lived as the McIntires receive a telegram stating her father is missing in action. The following day, Molly goes to the cinema where she sees a newsreel inspiring her to participate in the war effort at home. She helps create care packages for Allied soldiers in conjunction with the Red Cross, as well as collecting old clothes and making bandage boxes for soldiers overseas. While setting up the Christmas decorations in the house, another telegram from the Western Union arrives. It says James has been found alive but has been hospitalized, and that he will be discharged and sent home as soon as he is well enough to travel.  On Christmas Eve, Molly performs as Miss Victory at the Christmas Pageant when her father, James, surprises her after the finale. Though his leg is wounded and he relies on a cane, the family is ecstatic to see him and relieved that he is alive. The family goes home to enjoy their Christmas Eve and open presents. Molly receives a Red Cross doll while Emily receives a copy of A Christmas Carol from her father, whom James encountered while he was abroad.