Sheila Rilo is a bank teller at Desert Savings Bank in a small desert town. Her boyfriend is Rick Becker, the bank manager who was informed by his superiors that he would be fired if the bank's ATMs were to be robbed just one more time. Sheila and Rick have spent several years in an on-again off-again relationship, in which he uses her between other flings. After Sheila pays for most of Rick's education, he leaves her for his tutor. Sheila decides to exact revenge on Rick by robbing the bank and getting him fired.  On the same night, Stuart and Jason, two other tellers from the same bank, have also decided to rob the bank. Stuart's plan is to steal $250,000 from the bank and bet the entire amount on one game of roulette in Las Vegas. Stuart, who is desperate for excitement in his life, is following the suggestion of his friend Max, even though the intelligent Stuart usually talks Max out of his hare-brained get-rich-quick schemes.  Jason is a nature lover who lives with an orphaned duck. He was promoted to assistant bank manager, a position with much more responsibility but only a $0.55 per hour raise. He feels the bank owes him for years of loyal and underpaid service and he decides to get even by robbing the safety deposit box of a mean-spirited local millionaire, Charles Merchant. Merchant, who got rich from making infomercials and selling videotapes on how to get rich quickly on the real estate market, is the person that shot Jason's duck's mother, therefore making easier Jason's decision to rob Merchant's safety deposit box.  Jason is not the only one with a plan for revenge against the local tycoon. A disgruntled clothing store employee, Shmally, takes her revenge against Merchant the same night by having her friend/roommate Carter help her throw eggs at Merchant's home. Carter, with the help of Shmally, is in the process of cleaning himself up for a job interview at Desert Savings Bank. He is hired and arrives at the bank on Monday morning for his first day, only to be turned away by Rick.  Ultimately, all three bank employees are successful in their individual robberies, with each being completely unaware of the other's plans. After Rick is informed of his firing, he approaches each of them to offer them the job as bank manager. One by one they quit, leaving Rick to offer employment to Carter as he leaves the bank.  In an epilogue, we learn that Carter worked his way up to the assistant manager position at the bank, Max and Stu moved to Las Vegas, Jason traveled south and was never seen again, and Sheila enrolled at UCLA.