Petey Greene is in prison when he meets Dewey Hughes, who is there visiting his brother. Dewey treats him with disdain, calling him a “miscreant." In their conversation, Petey discovers that Dewey is a radio executive. Petey subsequently assists the warden by talking down a fellow prisoner and shortly afterward obtains his release.  Petey shows up at Dewey’s radio station in Washington, D.C., WOL, and claims that Dewey promised him a job upon his release from prison. As a result of causing a ruckus at the station, he is rebuffed. Petey then begins picketing the station drawing larger and larger crowds. To stop the protests, Dewey finally asks Petey to meet him at a pool hall. Dewey easily beats him in a game of Nine-ball, but decides to give Dewey a chance on the air.  Dewey takes over a shift on the station, but it is disastrous as he vomits from nervousness and insults Berry Gordy. Station owner E.G. Sonderling demands that he be removed at once and not given a job. Later, Dewey, dejected, goes to have a drink in a bar where he hears the patrons talking enthusiastically about Petey. He decides to give Petey another chance. In order to do so, he locks the staff in their offices and takes over the studio. Petey starts his show, and once Mr. Sonderling is released from his office, he demands that the police be called to eject Petey. As they are arguing, all the telephone lines light up with listeners wanting to talk to Petey. As a result, he is given the job.  “Telling it like it is”, Petey becomes highly popular on the air. His girlfriend, Vernell, catches him with another woman, and he is kicked out of his home and moves in with Dewey temporarily.   Petey is on the air when Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. is assassinated, and becomes a voice of reason as rioters run amok in the streets of Washington in the aftermath. He is the MC for a free James Brown concert at Georgetown University meant to calm tempers, but shows up drunk. Nonetheless, his remarks are well-accepted by the crowd, and James Brown tells him that he can introduce him anytime.  Petey’s popularity gains him his own television show, and his star continues to rise. Dewey gets him invited onto The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson, but Petey is reluctant to go on. Vernell tells Dewey that Petey doesn’t want to go on, but Dewey insists it will be fine. Petey goes on, alienates the audience, and his appearance is a disaster. Dewey and Petey fight backstage, and both are arrested and spend the night in jail.  Some time passes, and Dewey now owns the station. Vernell visits him and prevails on Dewey to reconcile with Petey. They play pool together, and finally express their love and admiration for one another. Petey soon dies, and Dewey gives a fond eulogy in front of a large crowd of Petey’s fans.