Three years after quitting male stripping, Mike has his own furniture business. He receives a call from Tarzan who informs him that Dallas is "gone". Believing that his former boss has died, Mike goes to a hotel to find his friends, the remaining Kings of Tampa, at a pool party.  After revealing Dallas bailed on them to start a new show in Macau and only took "The Kid" with him, the Kings let Mike in on their plan: to end their careers on a high note at the Myrtle Beach male stripping convention. Later, while trying to work, Mike dances to a song he used to strip to. Reinvigorated, he decides to join them on their trip.  Driving in a fro-yo van owned by Tito and Tobias, they make their first stop at Mad Mary's. To prove to Richie he is willing to commit to the trip, Mike participates in an amateur drag queen contest, and the others join him shortly. They then go to a beach where Mike lets Ken hit him to resolve his issues with him. He also meets photographer Zoe who tells him that she is off to New York. They flirt but agree to not have sex.  Back on the road, Mike suggests that they change their routine after the group (except Tarzan) take MDMA. At a gas station, he coerces Richie into trying to make the cashier smile with an improvised striptease. This inspires the others to abandon their old routines.  Soon afterwards, Tobias falls asleep at the wheel, crashing the van. He suffers a concussion and needs hospitalization; everyone else is left unscathed. In the hospital, they begin to lose morale, and contemplate quitting and heading home. Mike then reveals that his furniture business is not going that well and that he is no longer with Brooke after she rejected his proposal. The group decides to continue on.  In search of a new MC, Mike brings the group to a Savannah strip club owned by Rome, a woman Mike has a history with. Despite proving that his skills have not deteriorated, he is unsuccessful in getting her to help them. However, she gets Andre, a rapper/singer who works at the club, to drive them to their next stop.  Arriving at a mansion, Tito tells them he knows the girl who lives there and she is expecting them. Walking in, they are greeted by her mother, Nancy, and her friends, all middle-aged women. Nancy's teasing initially makes them feel awkward, but as the night progresses, the mood lightens. Mike meets Zoe again, and she tells him about how another photographer, under the guise of needing an assistant, tried to have an extramarital affair with her. Mike urges her to regain her smile at the convention.  After sleeping with Richie, Nancy lets them drive her ex-husband's car to Myrtle Beach. Upon arrival, they are surprised to see Rome. She had a change of heart, agreeing to be their MC. Andre and Malik also came to help. With preparations complete, they head to the convention where they squeeze in a spot thanks to Rome and her history with the organizer of the event, Paris.  The group's performance is a success. During Mike and Malik's performance, Mike brings Zoe on stage. Tobias returns with the fro-yo van as everyone celebrates and watches the Fourth of July fireworks.