In 1958 Los Angeles, Frank Forbes is a driver working for mogul Howard Hughes. He picks up Marla Mabrey, a devout Baptist beauty queen under contract with Hughes' film studio RKO Pictures, receiving $400 a week and living in a beautiful home with her strict mother Lucy. Frank becomes Marla's primary driver, taking her to singing and dance classes.  Marla spends months awaiting her screen test for Stella Starlight and meeting Hughes. Hughes' employee Levar Mathis regularly reminds Frank that the starlets cannot have close contact with men. Frank is devoutly religious, though he and his fiancée Sarah have secretly had sex. Lucy returns to Virginia, while Marla continues waiting for her screen test.  With her mother gone, Frank and Marla become closer. He lets her drive, and they confide in each other. Marla worries about conforming to the Hollywood "rules" of being a great singer, dancer, and having a big bosom; Frank assures her the rules do not apply to her. She finally meets Hughes in a private bungalow, where she turns down his offer of a drink and talks frankly about her acting aspirations. Nadine, Hughes' executive secretary, sets up Marla's screen test. Frank's first meeting with Hughes is so positive, he brings him into his inner circle of staff.  Hughes becomes even more reclusive, fearing that minority shareholders at TWA will have him committed. His right-hand-man Noah Dietrich upsets Hughes by suggesting he see a psychiatrist, and Hughes is advised to get married so his "wife" can refuse to sign commitment papers. Marla's screen test is a meaningless façade. She sings Frank a song she wrote, leading to a passionate kiss. They stop because Marla feels like an adulterer, but Frank says he will break up with Sarah.  Marla is called to another late-night meeting with Hughes where, upset about Frank, she consumes alcohol for the first time. When Hughes finally joins her, a very drunk Marla tells him how special he is. She performs her song for him, who becomes emotional and suddenly proposes, ending in them having sex. The next day, Frank is devastated when Marla reveals she is secretly engaged then abruptly dismisses him.  Within days, Hughes marries Jean Peters to protect him from being committed and fires Noah, hiring Robert Maheu as CEO of his companies. Maheu warns him that TWA shareholders could force Hughes to appear in court on charges of mismanagement.  Marla is upset for believing Hughes' proposal and having sex with him. When she informs him that she is pregnant with his child, Hughes suggests she is lying and looking for money. Again dismissive and rude to Frank, Marla returns to Virginia.  Hughes takes his entourage out of the country, becoming increasingly reclusive. When the courts decide in favor of the minority TWA shareholders, with a judgement for $645 million, Hughes has to sell his most cherished asset, his father's original Hughes Tool Company, to pay off the debt.  In 1964, Frank, Levar, and Nadine wait for Hughes to call the American press concerning a book written by Richard Miskin, who claims to have interviewed Hughes in person and that he has complete dementia, which could cost him the rest of his empire. Marla arrives with Matt, her and Hughes' five-year-old son, with news that Miskin's ex-girlfriend Mamie is ready to confirm in court that Miskin never met Hughes, so he does not need to make the call. Having Matt there, Hughes finds the strength to make the phone call anyway, and talks in great detail about current and past events, proving he is lucid and confirming that he has never met Miskin.  Frank immediately quits his job and goes after Marla and Matt. They leave together as a family.