Steel mill worker Russell Baze sees his brother, Rodney, at a horse racing simulcast. Rodney reveals the money he bet with - and lost - was lent by John Petty, who owns a bar and runs several illegal games. Russell visits Petty, pays off part of Rodney's debt, and promises to pay the rest. Driving home intoxicated, Russell hits a car, killing its occupants, and is incarcerated for vehicular manslaughter. While Russell is in prison, his ailing father dies and his girlfriend Lena leaves him for police chief Wesley Barnes.  After serving his sentence, Russell returns home and resumes his job. The same day, Rodney participates in an illegal bareknuckle prize fight. He was supposed to take a "dive" to repay some of the debt, but becomes enraged when beat up and defeats his opponent instead. The next morning, Russell finds Rodney's bloodied knuckle tapes and confronts him about it. Russell urges Rodney to work in the mill, but Rodney, a four-tour Iraq war veteran, is too mentally scarred for a regular job.  Tired of small money fights to chip at his debt, Rodney convinces Petty to organize a more lucrative fight. Reluctantly, Petty arranges one with Harlan DeGroat, a sociopathic drug dealer from rural New Jersey to whom Petty owes money. Meanwhile Russell wants his girlfriend back, but she is pregnant with Wesley's baby. Russell, visibly upset, says she will be a great mom. They part ways knowing that her pregnancy makes it impossible to get back together.  Once again, Rodney is told to intentionally lose. During the fight, Rodney nearly knocks out his opponent, but then takes a dive as instructed. After the fight, DeGroat asks for the rest of his loan, but Petty reminds him they had agreed that this fight made them even. However, DeGroat and his men ambush Petty and Rodney on the drive home. Claiming he does not consider his debt paid, DeGroat kills Petty and has Rodney dragged into the woods and killed as well. Unbeknownst to anyone, Petty's cell phone had fallen onto the car seat, accidentally connecting to his bartender Dan's voicemail and recording DeGroat murdering Petty.  That night, Russell finds a letter from Rodney, stating that this will be his last fight and that he wants to work with Russell at the mill. Wesley informs Russell about Rodney's disappearance, and Russell and his uncle, Red, set off to find him. In DeGroat's town, Russell and Red are stopped by a Bergen County deputy sheriff, who informs them that DeGroat's men would kill them if they knew why the two were in town, and, as a favor to Wesley, he will escort them to the state line rather than searching and arresting them for illegally carrying concealed weapons.  Upon returning to the mill, Wesley visits Russell and confirms Rodney's death. Russell goes to Petty's office, finds a phone number for DeGroat, and calls him without identifying himself, enticing him to come to collect Petty's debt.  At the bar, Russell sabotages DeGroat's van to prevent his escape and confronts him. He stalks and shoots DeGroat twice. Russell informs DeGroat that he is Rodney's brother, as Wesley approaches the field in a squad car. Wesley pleads for Russell to put down his gun, but Russell proceeds to carefully aim his hunting rifle and shoots DeGroat in the back of the head. The film cuts to a pensive Russell sitting at home at the dining table, suggesting that Wesley had arranged matters so that Russell avoided prison.