On a rainy night, a man named Tom Cooper sits in his pickup truck outside of his ex-wife's house. He removes his wedding ring, then grabs a hammer and a tank of gas. He proceeds to break into the house, kill his ex-wife and her boyfriend, and sets the house on fire before driving off.  The following morning, Rachel Flynn is awakened by a call from her lawyer and best friend, Andy, about her impending divorce. Later as she drives her son Kyle to school in rush hour traffic, she is fired by one of her clients over the phone. Frustrated with how her life is going, she angrily honks at a pickup truck blocking traffic at a green light. At the next red light, the pickup truck pulls up to Rachel, revealing it to be Tom behind the wheel. Tom apologizes for not going at the previous light and asks Rachel for an apology in return. Rachel refuses, telling him that she has nothing to apologize for. Enraged, Tom vows to teach her what a bad day really is. Down the road, Tom speeds in front of Rachel, slams on his brakes, and nearly causes an accident before driving off. Though shaken, Rachel drops Kyle off at school and makes plans to meet Andy at a diner.   Rachel later stops at a gas station. While inside the store, she sees Tom's truck parked outside. A fellow customer escorts Rachel back to her car and relays Tom's license plate number to her, but is then killed after Tom rams him with his truck and propels him into oncoming traffic. Tom then chases Rachel, during which he reveals that he has her phone. Using the info on her phone, Tom goes to the diner and meets with Andy, pretending to be a friend of Rachel's. Using Andy's phone, Tom calls Rachel on a burner phone stashed in her car. When Andy asks for his phone back, Tom smashes a mug across his face and stabs him to death in front of everyone. Tom then tells Rachel that she must choose someone in her contacts to die next. When he suggests her ex-husband, her mother, or Kyle, she chooses the client who fired her. Rachel then calls the police, who respond to the client's home while Rachel races to her son's school.  Tom arrives at Rachel's home, where her brother Fred and his fiancée Mary are living. Tom sneaks inside and Fred arms himself with a knife. Tom confronts him, holding Mary hostage, and explains to him that over time, he began to feel insignificant, powerless and invisible to humanity, and that revenge and violence are all he has left to get him through the day. Tom repeatedly pushes Mary into Fred's knife, accusing Fred of killing her (as he was the one holding the knife). He then ties Fred to a chair and tells Rachel over the phone that she has three minutes to go into the school, get Kyle, and drive away, or he will light Fred on fire, and demands Fred read a letter about how Rachel is a liar and how she is selfish. At the school, Rachel desperately demands that the principal release Kyle. She drives away with Kyle. A police officer arrives at Rachel’s house, and, after being told to let Fred go, Tom sets him on fire and pushes him to the cop. The cop is able to shoot a running Tom in the shoulder and tries to put the fire out. Tom catches up to Rachel and Kyle on a highway. They use a GPS app on her tablet to find out that Tom is in a minivan and is right in front of them. When they attempt to alert a nearby police officer, Tom sees them and rams the officer's car, causing a massive multi-vehicle car accident.  Tom pursues Rachel to her mother's house where Kyle triggers a silent alarm to bring the cops and hides. Rachel rams the van that Tom is driving, flipping the vehicle, but he gets out and attacks Rachel, telling her that she will always see Tom everywhere she goes, then enters the house in search of Kyle, intent on killing him. As he is about to walk back outside, Kyle inadvertently alerts Tom to his hiding place upstairs. Rachel sneaks inside the house and finds Kyle, but Tom finds them both and they engage in a brutal fight, beating and throwing each other around the room. When Tom begins to strangle Kyle with a cord, Rachel stabs Tom in the eye with a pair of scissors, finally killing him.  The police arrive and inform Rachel that Fred survived Tom's attack. Rachel and Kyle leave to see Fred at the hospital. As they drive away, a car cuts Rachel off and she stops herself from honking at the angry driver. Kyle says, "good choice." They drive away as the sun sets.