Ben Sheets and Arthur Sailes are a couple in Los Angeles, cheering over the legalization of same-sex marriage in Hawaii which means they can marry there. However very quickly, the judge requests a lengthy judicial review by the Supreme Court. Ben takes this time to inform Arthur that he is actually already married to a woman named Tammy, whom he wed out of heteronormative pressure. Arthur becomes angry but decides to stay with Ben anyway. Shortly thereafter, Ben comes out to Tammy and files for divorce.  Ben and Arthur work at a small diner. Although Ben—a former nurse who quit to pursue a music career—enjoys the job, Arthur has grown impatient, deciding to quit and go to a business school so he can open a sex shop. Though the loss of income means that Ben will have to return as a nurse, he agrees to do so in order to help Arthur. For funding, Arthur meets his brother, Victor, whom he has not spoken to for seven years. Victor, a homophobic but gay religious fanatic, offers to help Arthur if he brings Ben by the apartment to be evangelized. Meanwhile, the couple hires an attorney, Margaret, who advises that they go to Vermont to be wed in a civil union allowing them to be recognized in California. There, the two are wed privately.  Victor hires a private investigator and learns of their marriage; he then shoots Margaret dead. Meanwhile, Tammy visits Arthur's apartment with a gun, but Ben takes it and kicks her out. Ben and Arthur agree to visit Victor, who with another congregant from his church, Stan, hurl homophobic insults. They then secretly devise a plan to exorcise the couple using homemade holy water. The plot fails, and the couple enjoys a honeymoon in Hawaii. Victor's priest Rabin excommunicates him because of the congregation's fear on him as the relative of a gay person. Stan helps Victor convince Rabin to undo his decision if he can murder Ben and Arthur. They hire the hitman Scott, who gay bashes Ben upon his and Arthur's arrival, hospitalizing him.  Suspecting his involvement, Arthur breaks into Victor's apartment and taps his phone. After intercepting a call between Victor and Rabin, Arthur goes to the church and burns Rabin. When Ben recovers, Arthur takes him back home. Victor goes  to the couple's apartment and shoots Ben dead, then forces Arthur to strip naked at gunpoint, performing an impromptu baptism in the bathtub. While Victor contemplates his actions, Arthur gets Tammy's gun and shoots Victor in his right shoulder. Victor then shoots him in the back eight times and receives a headshot in return, rendering the two dead.