Prior to the founding of Seabrook, settlers fought off a group of werewolves for control over an energy artifact, later known as the moonstone.  At the opening of the film, the zombies have reunited with and assimilated into the rest of Seabrook. Zed plans to ask Addison to Prawn, the Seabrook equivalent of Prom, while Addison captains a group of new recruits to compete against veteran cheerleaders coached by Bucky. Soon after, though, Bucky announces his candidacy for class president which means that the cheer captaincy will go to someone else; Addison hopes to succeed Bucky.  The movie then fast-forwards to a bus carrying the cheerleaders enters the nearby forbidden forest, Addison and the cheerleaders spot werewolves, which upon report to the local government, causes the mayor to reinstate anti-monster laws. Zombies are banned from Prawn, so to combat the new laws, Zed decides to run for class president to go to Prawn with Addison.  Meanwhile, the local werewolves' power-granting moonstone necklaces are losing their power. Werewolf prophecy states that a girl with white hair known as the Great Alpha will lead them to this moonstone, so the werewolves enroll at Seabrook to contact Addison. Zed attempts to gain their vote for him by offering them advice on how to assimilate into Seabrook, which the werewolves ignore in favor of embracing their werewolf traits.  Noticing Addison's white hair, Wyatt, a high-ranking werewolf, invites her to their den, where they tell her the prophecy and give her a fully charged moonstone necklace, which they have saved for the Great Alpha. If she is truly a werewolf, wearing it will cause her to transform. The werewolves give her one day to decide, and reveal that the destruction of the power plant will cause the destruction of the moonstone buried underneath it. The next day, Addison shows Zed the necklace, but feeling jealous, Zed secretly takes it. Zed wins his presidential debate against Bucky, but when the Z-band shorts out due to the moonstone, Zed becomes a full zombie, losing the election.  The werewolves head to Seabrook Power and face off against the demolition crew. The werewolves are arrested at the demolition site, but Addison, alerted by a siren at school, arrives with the cheerleaders and zombies, who get the adults to stop the demolition. After the demolition is postponed, Zed reveals to Addison that he took the necklace from her. Angry, she puts on the necklace, but finds out that she's not a werewolf. The device controlling the demolition shorts out, and Seabrook Power is unwillingly demolished.  Prawn night arrives and Zed, as well as the rest of the non-humans, show up to crash Prawn. Zed and Addison make up, however, the ground starts shaking and splits open with a blue glow from the hole. The werewolves realize that the moonstone is not destroyed and enter the hole to find it. The humans and zombies follow to help. They find the moonstone, but a huge boulder blocks the way. Zed removes his Z-band and uses his zombie strength to lift the boulder and allow the others to bring the moonstone out safely. They return to Prawn; Zed and Addison subsequently share their first kiss.  In the final scene, a glowing blue meteor falls from the Moon, waking Addison and making her hair glow, though she doesn't notice it.