Dr. Jan Żabiński is director of the Warsaw Zoo, one of the largest in 1930s Europe, assisted by his wife, Antonina.  On 1 September 1939, the aerial bombardment of Warsaw and Invasion of Poland commences. Antonina and her son Ryszard barely survive. Dr. Lutz Heck, head of the Berlin Zoo and Adolf Hitler's chief zoologist and Jan's professional rival, visits the zoo while Jan is away; as Hitler's chief zoologist he's to run the Warsaw Zoo. Offering to house their prized animals in Berlin until after the war, he then returns with soldiers to shoot the others, revealing his hidden brutality. He becomes infatuated with Antonina.  Warsaw Jews are forced into the Ghetto. The Żabińskis' Jewish friends, Maurycy Fraenkel and his partner Magda Gross, seek a safe place for their friend Szymon Tenenbaum's insect collection. Antonina then offers to shelter Magda. Despite the risk, Jan and Antonina use the zoo to hide others and save more lives.  They propose Heck turn the abandoned zoo into a pig farm, to feed the occupying forces, secretly hoping to sneak people out of the Ghetto. Heck, wanting a new site for his experiments in recreating aurochs as a symbol of the Reich, agrees.  When Jan collects garbage inside the Ghetto, he also hides people in the trucks, to bring them to the zoo, working with the Underground Army to later transport them to safehouses throughout the country. Jews are hidden in the zoo's cages, tunnels, and inside the Żabińskis’ house. When Antonina plays the piano late at night, it means it is safe to come out of hiding. But if it is played in the daytime, they must hide. Jan also rescues a young girl, Urszula, who was raped by German soldiers. Antonina takes a particular interest in her, treating her the same way she would treat a frightened animal, until she emerges to join other "guests" in the Zabinskis' home.  In 1942, Germans begin transporting Jews to death camps. At a loading station, Jan tries to convince Janusz Korczak, head of the Jewish children's orphanage, to escape with him, but he will not leave the children. Jan has no choice but to help load children into the cattle cars bound for the death camps. Becoming aware of Heck's obvious feelings for his wife, a rift begins to form between the couple.  In 1943, two women rescued by Jan and disguised as Aryans by Antonina are discovered and executed outside their boarding house. Several months later, after the failed uprising, Germans liquidate the Ghetto on Hitler's birthday, also the first night of Passover. While hidden Jews mournfully celebrate a secret Passover Seder, the Germans burn down the Ghetto.  Jan decides to join the Warsaw Uprising, and the couple reconciles before he leaves. Antonina later gives birth to a baby girl, Teresa. During the uprising, Jan is shot and captured, presumed dead. As Heck's attraction to Antonina intensifies, she struggles to fend him off while guarding the secret "guests." Visiting the house unexpectedly, Heck finds Ryzard, questioning the boy about his parents' whereabouts, but is unable to get any information. In growing suspicion and rage, Heck pins the Nazi cross onto the boy's shirt, goading him to say "Heil Hitler." As he leaves, Ryszard cries out "Hitler is kaput!"  In January 1945, evacuation of Warsaw begins. Desperate to know of Jan, Antonina seeks Heck's help. When he asks what he will get in return, she begins to undress, though she obviously can't bear him. Increasingly sure of her deceit, Heck almost rapes her, she finally confesses that he disgusts her, and he begins to realize how much she has lied. Calling for his car to go to the zoo, Antonina races home and helps her guests escape, just as Heck arrives. Magda takes baby Teresa with her, but Ryszard insists on staying, so Antonina hides him.  Heck enters the house in fury, discovering the basement drawings: Stars of David, dates, and guests drawn with animal faces. When he finds Ryszard, he chases him through the animal tunnels, catching him at gunpoint. Locking Antonina in a cage, he ignores her pleas as he drags the boy out of eyesight. When a shot rings out, she collapses in grief. A moment later, Heck walks back to his car, leaving the zoo for good. Ryszard returns to her side, unharmed. The two join the march out of Warsaw.  Warsaw began rebuilding four months after the Nazi surrender. Antonina and the children return to the damaged zoo, along with Jerzyk, their loyal zookeeper. Jan returns home, having survived a prison camp. They paint Stars of David on all the cages in the zoo.  In the postscript: the Żabińskis saved 300 Jews. Heck's zoo in Berlin was destroyed by Allied bombings, and he never recreated aurochs. The Żabińskis were recognized by Israel (Yad Vashem) for their righteous acts and defiance against the Germans. They rebuilt the present day Warsaw Zoo.