Wade Porter is a blue-collar worker living with his fiancée Laura and their son Michael. One night, they hear a burglar in the house while they're sleeping. Wade chases him out of the house and hits him in the head with a baseball bat, unintentionally killing him on his lawn. For attacking an unarmed intruder after he exited the house, he is arrested and charged with murder. At the urging of his public defender, he enters a plea of no contest in exchange for a reduced sentence of three years for involuntary manslaughter.  During the bus ride to prison Danny Sampson, leader of the local Aryan Brotherhood, stabs a man and hides the knife with young Aryan member Snowman who is sitting behind Wade. In a moment's panic, Snowman hides the knife under Wade's seat and forces him to deny knowledge of it.   As a result, Wade is sent to solitary confinement until the stabbing can be investigated. Lieutenant Jackson interrogates him about the stabbing but he doesn't cooperate with the investigation. Jackson decides to send Wade to the Security Housing Unit (SHU) where he is the commanding officer.  John Smith is serving a life sentence at San Quentin State Prison and is transferred to Wade's prison, becoming his cellmate in the SHU. Inmates here are under 23-hour lock-down and not permitted to have visitors for the first three months. Wade discovers the daily hour of yard time consists of inmate fights, on which the officers bet. At different points throughout the film, it's shown that not all of the officers agree with Jackson's methods.  In addition to the prison violence, Wade's regular visits with Laura start to take their toll on their relationship. Michael has nightmares after visiting, and the family's finances are running low. After Wade refuses to identify Sampson as the perpetrator of the murder on the bus, Jackson falsely testifies that he was an accessory to the murder, resulting in an additional three years being added to his existing sentence.   Laura, under pressure from her mother, breaks off the relationship with Wade through a letter. Broken and enraged, he resorts to fighting the prisoners in exchange for protection from Sampson and the Aryan Brotherhood.  Wade and John devise a plan to reveal the truth about the violence in the prison, and possibly get him released. During the next yard time, Wade refuses to kill an inmate after defeating him in a fight. A furious Jackson enters the yard and prepares to attack him, but Smith kills him by severing his femoral artery and throat with a concealed shiv. Another yard officer then shoots Smith, who dies from his wounds.   With the help of a retired correctional officer at Smith's former prison, the FBI, and Laura, the corruption of the prison officers is exposed and Wade's additional sentence is commuted. He is released after 15 months in prison and reunited with his family.