In a feline-populated St. Louis, during the Prohibition of 1927, bootlegger Roark "Rocky" Rickaby performs his violin while reciting his poetic memoir to the Mississippi River. After finishing his recital, Rocky joins up with his cousin Calvin "Freckle" McMurray and their close friend Ivy Pepper to dig up a coffin loaded with whisky from one of their suppliers. By the time they load the bottles into their car, they are ambushed by the rival Marigold gang, consisting of former Lackadaisy member Mordecai Heller and the Cajun Savoy siblings: Nicodeme and Serafine. In the ensuing chase, Freckle disables Marigold's car with his Tommy gun, but Mordecai forces them off the road and into the Sable mining quarry.  The trio takes shelter and Ivy repairs the car while Freckle holds off Mordecai. Rocky wanders the quarry and manages to rig a steam shovel into driving itself while maniacally hurling dynamite to drive the Marigold gang away, accidentally causing a flood by destroying a water tower. However, everyone manages to escape. Mordecai has a chance to stop the group as they drive away, but decides not to after noticing Ivy at the wheel.  At the Lackadaisy speakeasy, the owner Mitzi May expresses her laments to the portrait of her deceased husband Atlas as she recalls how big their business used to be. She meets with her employees and her guest, Sedgewick "Wick" Sable, the owner of the quarry. She asks him for financial help, though he politely refuses to maintain his public image to the community. Rocky, Freckle, and Ivy return with only three bottles intact from the fight. Opposed to Rocky's efforts for approval, Mitzi reluctantly expresses displeasure with the short amount recovered, but states she is happy they came back safely. Rocky and fellow musician Zib play music while Ivy performs a dance with Freckle, during which Mitzi reminisces about how thriving the club was in Atlas' time.  In a post-credits scene, Mordecai calls his superior Asa Sweet, and reports his and the Savoys' failure to recover the supply, and that one of their suppliers has crossed them to sell to Lackadaisy. Sweet suggests that they may need to tie up this loose end before the government catches wind of their operation.