The film starts with a close-up of Vivienne's (Sarah Jessica Parker) trembling blue eyes. Vivienne receives a call from her manager, Ben (Common), that she is late for a rehearsal. Afterwards, Vivienne finds out from her doctor, Dr. Marianne Holt (Mary Beth Peil), that she has a terminal brain tumor. After the visit with Dr. Holt, Vivienne walks aimlessly around New York City. She receives multiple phone calls from her mother, Jeanne (Jacqueline Bisset). Vivienne finally reaches the studio and is greeted by Ben. He informs her that she has an interview right after the rehearsal. As she approaches her bandmates, she apologizes for being late. She begins hugging everyone else except the drummer, Jordan (Taylor Kinney). After the rehearsal, Jordan asks Vivienne out for coffee and is refused due to the interview. Their fingers linger on his drum set, implying that they are in a romantic relationship. Afterward, Vivienne goes up to the second floor with Jordan. They begin making out passionately.  Afterwards, Vivienne continues to wander around aimlessly as she makes her way to the interview. She passes by a clothing store and buys an expensive dress. She then attends the interview but does not seem like she is into the conversation with the interviewer, Oona (Phillipa Soo). After the interview, Vivienne meets Ray (Michael Potts). Their conversation ends with Vivienne rushing off for her Lyft. Throughout her Lyft ride, Sami (Waleed Zuaiter), the Lyft driver, gets in a heated argument over the phone. Vivienne, visibly uncomfortable in her Lyft ride, demands to get off early. She returns home and is greeted by her mother who bombards her with questions. Vivienne becomes increasingly annoyed and replies rudely to Jeanne. Jeanne apologizes to her and leaves the kitchen. After drinking a glass of wine, Vivienne locks herself in her room, sees a picture of her daughter, Lucie (Gus Birney), and starts crying. She realizes what she has done to her mother and went out to apologize and hugs her. Subsequently, she recalls that she has left her dress in her Lyft and calls Sami to retrieve it. Sami arrives outside Vivienne's house to return her dress. As he is about to drive off, Vivienne halts him and asks if she can catch a ride. Sami rejects her request and drives off.  Vivienne arrives at her ex, Nick's (Simon Baker), house unannounced. Nick invites her to dinner and she politely declines. Vivienne decides to leave Nick's house. She bids Nick and Lucie farewell. She continues wandering around aimlessly and has a conversation with an older lady (Venida Evans). Vivienne then calls Ben to arrange a meeting. As she travels to their meeting spot, she happens upon her old friend, Tessa (Renée Zellweger). They have a conversation about their lives before Tessa returns to her birthday party. Vivienne then attends a performance in which Jordan is playing the drums. After the performance, she is invited to sing on stage. Vivienne sings the song "Unfollow the Rules" by Rufus Wainwright. She later has sex with Jordan at his apartment. She gets into a Lyft and meets Sami again, who drives her to Nick's house. Nick is dismayed that Vivienne has once again showed up unannounced. Lucie comes out of her bedroom to see what the commotion is about. Nick excuses himself to allow Vivienne some time with Lucie. In her bedroom, Lucie plays her song to her mother and is met with adoration by Vivienne. Before Lucie falls asleep, Vivienne expresses her regrets about not being there for her. Vivienne kisses Lucie goodnight and goes into the living room to see Nick watching an old French movie. They converse before Nick realizes something is wrong with Vivienne. Nick reprimands her for prioritizing work over what is actually important. Before they conclude their conversation, Nick wants Vivienne to update him about her condition before they decide how to disclose her condition to Lucie. Nick then holds her hand and expresses that he really does care for her and that he is scared. Vivienne then pulls her hand away from Nick and returns to Lucie's bedroom. She sits down beside Lucie's bed and spends the night shaking and weeping.  The next morning, Vivienne sneaks out of Nick's house. She returns home to pack for her surgery and leaves the house. She takes a Lyft and is chauffeured by Sami once again. While driving, Sami turns around to check out Vivienne, but Vivienne avoids eye contact and takes a nap for the remainder of the Lyft ride. She is later awakened by Sami. Outside the hospital, due to Vivienne's request, both Vivienne and Sami get out of the car for coffee. She begins walking away from Sami. While on the hospital bed, Vivienne removes her jewelry.