The story begins in the 1960s with three inmates in a New York prison — Earl (Van Peebles), Rocco (Kelly), and Carlito (Hernandez) — controlling their criminal empire within their cell. Upon their release, they all look to control the drug trade in Harlem, which is currently in a power dispute between the Italian Bottolota crime family and black gangsters led by Hollywood Nicky (Combs). Rocco takes them to Artie Bottolota (Young) who at first is reluctant to work with blacks and Puerto Ricans, but who eventually cuts a deal with them in heroin distribution. The friends also meet Artie's son, Artie Jr. Soon, Earl's troubled younger brother Reggie joins them. It does not take long for Reggie to cause trouble; eventually endangering both himself and Carlito's deal with the Bottolotas.  Artie Jr. attempts to kill Reggie with a straight razor, while Carlito is restrained. Rocco pulls up and tells Artie Jr. to let him go, reasoning they will "take care of him." Carlito also meets a young lady named Leticia and meets her brother Sigfredo. Sigfredo knows who and what Carlito really is, which leads to confrontation. Carlito eventually proves himself to Leticia's family, but Sigfredo leaves.  Reggie, after being kicked off the crew by Carlito, attacks and kidnaps Artie Jr. outside of his house, with the help of two other thugs. After Reggie gets the ransom, Artie Jr. is released by police and returns to his family.  The Bottolotta Family blames Carlito, Rocco, and Earl for assisting Reggie in the kidnapping. Artie Sr. puts out a contract on the trio.  The hitman contracted to kill them, Nacho Reyes (Luis Guzmán), and Carlito's accomplice, Colorado help them find the hoodlums with Reggie. Reggie's location is learned.  Carlito and Nacho find Reggie in an apartment, along with Earl. The four men draw guns, Nacho holding two revolvers and Carlito holding a revolver and Reggie threatening Carlito, taking no responsibility for the trouble he has caused. Reggie is killed, and Nacho leaves.  Carlito, Earl and Rocco continue working for the Bottolotta Family, dealing heroin.  Carlito and Earl pay off  corrupt cops in Harlem to raid and kill the entire Bottolotta Family. Carlito, Rocco and Earl fly to the islands with Earl for his wedding. Earl retires, and Carlito reunites with Leticia, retiring temporarily.