In Fresno, California, optimistic Martha Jackson works as a housekeeper at a local hotel. Her older sister Shannon is a sex addict and frequently goes to rehab. Since Shannon is unemployed, Martha offers her a job as a housekeeper at the hotel. As a celebration for Shannon's first day on the job, they go to a local bar. Afterwards, Martha takes Shannon back to her house and tells her where things are while she is away. However, Shannon sneaks off to the house of her married therapist, Edwin, with whom she is having an affair. Meanwhile, Martha works out at the gym. Her trainer Kelly starts to take interest in her.  The next morning at the hotel, Shannon and Martha meet Boris, a slob who says that he knows everyone at the hotel. While taking a break, Shannon calls Edwin again. Edwin tells Shannon that he gave his wife a letter and had left her the minute she received it. Realizing that Edwin cannot go back to his wife, Shannon takes her anger out by going to Boris' room to have sex with him. Martha catches her in the act after she hears her scream in the distance. While Shannon defends herself from Boris, she accidentally kills him. Desperate to cover up the murder, they sneak Boris' corpse out of the hotel.  After sneaking out of the hotel, they take the corpse to Boris' family who has taken a disliking towards him. Shannon, posing as Boris' life guru, meets his sister Margaret. Margaret invites Shannon in to convince her parents that Boris has moved on in life and has left Fresno to never come back or to talk to his family again.  Martha and Shannon take the corpse over to their friends Gerald and Ruby, who own a pet cemetery. After uncovering Boris' corpse, they at first threaten to call the police, but then decide to blackmail the sisters for $25,000 by Monday in exchange for covering up the murder, threatening to charge them with manslaughter if they are unable to come up with the money. They initially attempt to rob an adult store to steal all the merchandise and try to sell them to lesbians at an event being held at the local hotel they work at, only to discover they did not make enough money.  To take the stress off, Martha goes to the gym while Shannon hooks up with her co-worker Eric. At the gym, Kelly informs Martha that one of her students is having a bar mitzvah and that she wants to bring Martha along as a date. After the gym, Martha returns and catches Shannon making out with Eric, much to her annoyance. While discussing the bar mitzvah the next day, they realize they can steal all of the money. Martha and Shannon double date with Kelly and Eric. Martha pretends she is choking on something to distract the crowd long enough to steal the money. Kelly asks to bring Martha back to her house to keep an eye on her, but Martha rejects. Kelly confesses that she is attracted to Martha, but Martha blows her off by telling her about her sister who has problems.  After the bar mitzvah, they realize they only stole $12,000, which is not enough money for Gerald and Ruby. Ruby, however, reluctantly agrees to cremate Boris' corpse. They then arrange a fake funeral for her dead "dog". Martha discovers Shannon having sex with Gerald, which is the final straw for Martha. Shannon tries to apologize, but Martha tells her that she is tired of helping her and that she does not want her to go back to her place.  Martha goes to reconcile with Kelly, and Shannon comes across Margaret who thanks her for the advice that Shannon gave. Realizing she has no one to talk to, she turns herself in. Two years later, it is revealed that she and Martha write letters to each other while Shannon is in prison, stating that "I hate you which in case you forgot means I love you like a sister."