Lee (Tequan Richmond) moves to the United States from Antigua by himself; his mother cannot move due to her job. As a lone teenager, Lee comes in contact with John (Isaiah Washington). John is living with his three children: one daughter and two sons. After spending some time together, John and Lee move to Tacoma, Washington, alongside John's girlfriend Angela (Cassandra Freeman). John starts introducing Lee as his son.  John meets his old-time friend, Ray (Tim Blake Nelson), while going for a jog with Lee. Ray introduces Lee to guns. Lee turns out to be a natural marksman. One day, John tries to contact his children in Maryland but is unsuccessful due to a restraining order. Frustrated by this, John comes home and has an argument with Angela over a petty issue; Angela throws John and Lee out of her house. John and Lee move in with Ray, his wife (Joey Lauren Adams), and their toddler son. Lee discovers a cache of firearms in Ray's basement.  Gradually, John brainwashes an impressionable Lee into committing murders. Lee commits his first murder by shooting a neighbor (Maya Woods) point-blank in the head. John encourages Lee to commit more murders in order to pay back the favor of bringing Lee to the United States. Lee commits his next murder by shooting a pub owner (Bruce Kirkpatrick) in the back and robbing him. With the robbery money, John and Lee buy a dark blue Chevrolet Caprice Classic. John teaches Lee how to drive and modifies the car's rear, adding a small makeshift gun port to the trunk.  In October 2002, John and Lee conduct a siege of terror on the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Using a Bushmaster XM-15 rifle fired from the Caprice's gun port, they commit a series of random shootings in public places for two weeks, plunging the public into fear and hysteria. The Montgomery County Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation start investigating the attacks. One night, the two park in a no-parking spot to sleep; law enforcement, having caught up to them, surround their car and apprehend them, ending their ten-month-long crime spree, which caused 17 deaths and 10 injuries.  Five months later, Lee is held in prison. He is visited by a lawyer (Linda Powell) who tries to question him about the motives of the random killings. Lee remains stubborn and asks, "Where is my father?" as police officers escort him back to his cell.