The Heffleys visit the local pool, where they run into Lenwood Heath, a reformed delinquent friend of Rodrick's who works as a lifeguard. He attends Spag Union, a strict disciplinarian military school that begins at the eighth grade. Frank notes that Greg is about to enter eighth grade and considers signing him up.  After learning that Greg spent his entire first day of summer vacation playing video games, Frank dismantles the television set. Susan starts a book club for Greg and his friends and urges Frank to spend more time with him. Frank takes him fishing and to an American Civil War reenactment, but his incompetence annoys Frank.  Rowley invites Greg to the local country club. Initially reluctant, he joins Rowley as a guest after learning that his crush, Holly Hills, teaches tennis there. Frank surprises Greg with an unpaid summer internship at his office, hoping they can bond. Disliking the idea, Greg lies about getting a job at the country club, to Frank and Susan's delight. They give him a starter cell phone that only allows him to call home or 911.   Rowley invites Greg on a family trip to a rented beach house near the boardwalk, and they ride a ride called the Cranium Shaker that Rodrick suggested, despite Rowley's parents forbidding them from going on "scary rides". Greg becomes increasingly uneasy with the Jeffersons' eccentric lifestyle and secretly uses Rowley's father Robert's laptop to email Susan to get himself out of the trip. The Jeffersons confront him after he accidentally sends the email to everyone on Robert's contact list. He desperately tries to call home using his new phone, but accidentally calls 911, leading to Robert almost getting arrested when he absentmindedly opens the door with a knife in his hand. Greg is sent home early, and Frank starts to believe that Rowley is a bad influence.  A few days later, Rowley informs Greg that he is no longer allowed to invite him to the country club, but he constantly sneaks in by impersonating members. After Rodrick learns that Holly's older sister, Heather, whom he has a crush on, also works there, he asks Greg to help him sneak in. Greg reconciles with Rowley and gets Löded Diper a gig for Heather's upcoming sweet sixteen, to Rodrick's delight. During another country club visit, Robert confronts Frank and Greg over the latter's purchase of two hundred and sixty dollars' worth of smoothies. Frank mentions that Greg "works" there, but the manager denies this. Learning the truth of Greg's deception, Frank expresses his disappointment with him. Shortly after, Rodrick reveals to him that a Spag Union disc has been mailed to them, to his horror.  Rodrick urges Greg to go on the "Wilderness Weekend" camping trip with his classmates to impress Frank. During it, Fregley tells a scary story about a muddy hand. Spooked, Greg strikes Frank's hand with a mallet. He admits his guilt over constantly messing up. The next day, after overhearing Frank's boss, Stan Warren, insult him over his lack of camping skills, Greg sets a trap with his friends and sneaks into Stan's tent, where he discovers that their troop has been cheating by using household appliances. Stan discovers Greg and insults him, but Frank chastises Stan for faking his camping skills. He runs into Greg's trap, humiliating himself. At a motel on the way home, Frank confesses he never liked camping and decides not to send Greg to Spag Union, to his surprise and delight. He also talks to him about learning from mistakes and taking responsibility, making them both realize they are more alike than they thought.  At Heather's sweet sixteen a few days later, Löded Diper performs a heavy metal cover of "Baby" with Rodrick on lead vocals to try to impress her. The performance goes awry when he accidentally knocks over a huge ice bust of Heather. She attempts to assault him with a microphone stand but smashes a chocolate fountain with it, ending the party in disaster, though Holly enjoys it, and she and Greg become a couple and spend the rest of their summer together with Rowley and the rest of the Heffleys.