Amanda Riley, a travel industry professional for tourist, undertakes a covert mission to gain insight into Vietnam's tourism sector after her five year relationship with John ends unexpectedly. Her boss Mona convinces her to get a manicure for what she believes will be a proposal, however he proposes a hiatus to take a position in Ohio. She is met at the Vietnamese airport by Sinh, the tour guide for Saigon Silver Star and his cousin Anh, daughter of the owner. In the evening she meets the other package tour travelers. To keep her purpose for the trip hidden, Amanda proposes they not reveal their professions as a sort of game.  Mona has given Amanda a lot of material and proposed itineraries, which Sinh consistently rejects. He insists she trust his choices. Amanda starts to get out of her comfort zone by trying to barter, tasting exotic foods and learning to cross a busy street without a crosswalk. Sinh sees that Amanda sells herself short, and believes that, rather than trying to follow a rigorous itinerary to be flexible and see where the day takes them. He values impulsivity and going with the moment. At a temple, Sinh pulls some strings so their group can watch preparation for the lion dance for the Vietnamese Lunar New Year celebration Tết. At a seamstress's the group gets clothes made for them, as it is customary on Tết to wear something new with bright colors to invite luck and prosperity. As the others rest before dinner, Sinh takes Amanda to a tiny street decorated with bright paper lanterns, where he opens up. He'd moved to the US as a child, but returned after college. At first Sinh had worked in his father's restaurant, but became a tour guide after helping his uncle and discovering his calling.  Enjoying the day by the water, Sinh and Amanda try out a round boat and end up falling in. Soon afterwards, Anh breaks the bad news that getting tickets for the Golden Bridge would take hours, so again Sinh improvises. They go to the My Son Sanctuary, Hindu ruins which had been built over a thousand years. As Amanda feels inspired, Sinh takes them off the beaten path to his grandmother's village. There, they stay in locals' homes and his grandma, sensing chemistry between him and Amanda, invites her to stay at hers. The group helps with preparations for Tết by cleaning, decorating and preparing a feast. Anh interprets for their grandmother so she can ask Amanda what her intentions are with Sinh. She obviously shows interest in him, but insists she just wants to stay friends. The grandmother says she doesn't believe her and leaves. Anh stays, confiding in Amanda that her dad is selling the company, but Sinh doesn't know yet. She also tells her that whoever first knocks on your door on Tết greatly influences your coming year.  Sinh visits Amanda bright and early, and everyone helps put out the feast. Wearing their specially-made outfits, both old and new bonds are made stronger. Amanda is about to tell Sinh about her purpose for the trip, but instead they kiss. Arriving to Hanoi the next day, John surprises them. Announcing that he's come to win Amanda back, both Sinh and she look crestfallen. Alone together, John tells her he's ready to advance their relationship. Amanda calls Mona to tell her of her unintentional love triangle, with the comfortable John and the adventurous and exciting Sinh.  At that evening's water puppetry show, Sinh sullenly sits on one side of Amanda while John sits on the other. As the group sit outside, chatting happily about the show and having street vendor food, Anh gets word that Tourista has bought the tour company. John congratulates Amanda, so she has to confess her involvement. Upset, Sinh starts to storm off and Amanda follows him, but he believes it was all a lie. The next day, John tells Amanda that he's back in LA at the end of the year, so they can house hunt then. She realises he's not really motivated to marry her, but just wants to please her. Amanda realises she doesn't want it any more and says goodbye. Meanwhile, the cousins make up and Sinh decides to travel to clear his head at his dad's. When Amanda finds out, Anh helps her cross the city to stop him from leaving and confess her feelings.