After school on Tiffany's 18th birthday, Tiffany (Diamond White) and her friend Gabriella (Inanna Sarkis) encounter Tiffany's dad Brian (Tyler Perry) and brother B.J. (Dee Dubois) outside the school. Tiffany's mom, Brian's ex-wife Debrah (Taja V. Simpson) arrives with her new husband Calvin (Akende Munalula) and they surprise Tiffany with the car she wanted (and hoped her father would give her). She and Gabriella drive it recklessly to the Upsilon Theta frat house where they hear that Jonathan (Yousef Erakat) and the others are having a Halloween party at Lake Derrick. She hopes to make it up to them after what happened last year.  Brian goes home where Madea (Tyler Perry), Joe (Tyler Perry), Bam (Cassi Davis), and Hattie (Patrice Lovely) are waiting at his house to surprise Tiffany with Gabriella's dad Victor (Tito Ortiz). She tells her friend Leah (Lexy Panterra) about the party and asks her mom if she can go. She says yes to upset Brian. Madea overhears Tiffany's conversation about the party and immediately tells Brian, but he agrees to let her go so that he can teach her a lesson. Unhappy about Brian's decision, Madea decides to go to Lake Derrick with Joe, Bam, and Hattie to get Tiffany, who rounds up Gabriella, Leah, and Anna (Hannah Stocking), a girl who's stalking Horse (Brock O'Hurn), and they arrive at Lake Derrick in her new car. The frat boys meet up and have fun with the girls until some of them disappear after seeing "Derrick", his brother, and his daughters.  On the way, Madea accidentally hits one of "Derrick's" daughters with her car when she mysteriously appears on the road. Madea, Bam, and Hattie check on the girl, who pulls her hair and shows her scarred-up face to everybody. The ladies run back to the car, but the girl appears on top of the car, scaring everyone again, and Joe immediately drives away.  Back at Lake Derrick, Tiffany, Gabriella, Leah, and the remaining frat boys are at the campfire discussing the murders that happened in the area at the hands of "Derrick". Gabriella doesn't want to hear this and insists on leaving. Horse and Leah sneak away to have sex, under the guise that they will look for ice for the cooler. While on the truck, the two find blood and are immediately confronted by "Derrick" and his family. "Derrick" and his family chase them into the woods with Horse getting caught and presumably killed. Leah runs out of the forest and sees Madea and the gang, deciding to wait with them for the car to stop smoking, until Bam sees a "Grim Reaper" figure standing in the middle of the road. Madea initially thinks this is just another one of the frat boys' pranks until the figure slashes one of the Cadillac's tires, but Joe continues to drive it anyway.  Gabriella reluctantly seeks safety in a tent with Dino (Mike Tornabene), a frat brother who had been flirting with her all night, but they discover "Derrick" and his daughters outside the tent. In another tent, Tiffany hooks up with Jonathan until "Derrick" tears down the tent. Tiffany, Gabriella, Jonathan, and Dino escape from the camp after Tiffany tries unsuccessfully to call her mom.  Madea and the crew finally arrive at the camp. Madea accompanies Hattie to an old outhouse to go to the bathroom. While waiting, Madea spots a masked, axe-wielding killer coming out of the river and immediately runs away. Inside the outhouse, Hattie spots the girl trying to grab her and she runs away. Madea and Hattie arrive back at the car, but Joe spots "Derrick" and drives away.  At the DeShields County Sheriff Department, Debrah and Calvin desperately ask the sheriff (Barry Stoltze) to check for Tiffany at Lake Derrick, but Brian says he will go look for her with Victor.  Madea's car stops in front of an old abandoned house, where the girl scares everyone out of the car into the house. They find Tiffany, Leah, Gabriella, Jonathan, and Dino hiding there. Inside, Hattie and Madea witness Joe being dragged away by "Derrick" and his brother. Then "Derrick" saws off Madea's car. The girl appears inside, scaring everyone out. Brian and Victor are waiting for them where they reveal that they had been pranking them for lying and sneaking out where the twin acrobats at Tiffany's birthday party posing as the girl.  At the DeShields County Sheriff Department, Debrah learns of Brian and Victor's prank where she is learning to co-parent. Debrah agrees and the people who were "killed" are safely locked at the sheriff department for trespassing and having drugs. While Victor plans to have his revenge on Horse for hitting on Gabriella and Anna was also involved in Brian's prank, Madea ducks out of sight as she mentions to Bam that there is a wanted poster of her on the wall.  Outside the sheriff department, Brian and Victor realize that the masked chainsaw killer at the outhouse was not part of the prank....he is the actual Derrick. When Derrick spots them, they drive away. A still-alive Joe asks him if he can help him deal with his problem with Madea and he nods in response.