Five years after Dalton Russell's gang stole loot from the bank of Arthur Case, exposing him as a Nazi collaborator, a group of bank robbers led by Ariella Barash take over the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and take everyone in the building hostage. Their goal: To steal a large stash of Nazi gold stored inside the building. In response, a joint task force led by FBI negotiator Brynn Stewart and NYPD negotiator Remy Darbonne is deployed to resolve the situation.  While negotiating with Ariella, who calls herself Most Wanted, Stewart and Darbonne separately learn of her motivations behind participating in the heist. Arthur Case (the Nazi sympathizer from the 2006 film) has died while under ongoing house arrest. His son, Dietrich, takes Dalton (the mastermind from the previous heist, revealed to be David Barash) hostage, and forces Ariella (his sister) to participate in order to financially compensate Dietrich for the earlier loss of Arthur’s treasure.  Unknown to the two negotiators and the rest of the robbery crew, Ariella and her sister Ava engineer the robbery to make it look like a failure. They leave behind subtle clues for Stewart and Darbonne to pick up on in the aftermath. Ava is on the outside and manages to talk with Darbonne by claiming her abusive ex-boyfriend is one of the robbers. Ariella leaves a family photo revealing their biological relationship to brother David in the safety deposit box. She also leaves Stewart a cell phone to guarantee the arrest of Dietrich and recovery of the stolen gold.  Dietrich is arrested by the F.B.I. and the gold is recovered, but not before he can order David's execution. (He had been held hostage by Nazis in Berlin.)  During the aftermath of Dietrich’s arrest, Darbonne and Stewart speculate on the fates of Ariella and Ava. He states he believes Ariella is alive and that people will die when she learns that her brother is gone.  In a mid-credits scene, a disguised Ariella enters a bar in Berlin to shoot Dietrich’s men, avenging her brother’s death.