Right before Greg Heffley leaves on his first day of seventh grade, Susan, Greg's mother, who writes a parenting column in the local newspaper, tells Greg and his older brother, Rodrick, who picks on Greg, that they need to spend more time together, and incentivizes them with money. When Greg returns home, a local talent show is advertised on TV, and Rodrick sees it as the big break for his band, Löded Diper. At church the following Sunday, Rodrick stains Greg's pants with chocolate, humiliating Greg and causing a public scuffle between them, ruining Susan's reputation.  As punishment, Susan, Greg's father Frank, and younger brother Manny go on a trip to the water park, Rockin’ Rapids, without Greg and Rodrick, leaving them home for the weekend to work on their differences; they are instructed not to invite anyone over. Ignoring this, Rodrick throws a wild party which Greg and Rowley end up participating in. The next morning, Greg and Rodrick receive a voicemail from Susan and Frank, informing them that they will be returning early from their trip due to Manny being ill, prompting them to hastily clean up the trashed house. They find that someone wrote: "Rodrick Rules" on the bathroom door in permanent marker. Greg gets the idea to replace it with the door to the basement. However, after their family gets home, they realize that the replacement door does not have a lock on it.  Rodrick tells Greg to deny everything, but Susan soon realizes the lock is gone and confronts Greg over it. Greg confesses that Rodrick had people over, but lies saying it was only a band practice and begs Susan not to punish Rodrick, believing it would ruin their improving relationship. So, Susan agrees to this, and Rodrick, believing Greg kept their secret, gains respect for his younger brother. The two start spending more time together, and Rodrick gives Greg advice on school and girls, though most of it backfires.  One night, when Frank plans to show a slideshow of his civil war figurines to Susan's editors, who are visiting the Heffley household, he ends up finding pictures of Rodrick's party. Susan's reputation is ruined again. Frank grounds Greg for a couple of weeks while Susan grounds Rodrick for a month and forbids him from participating in the talent show, which leaves him distraught. Having learned that Greg partially admitted the truth to Susan earlier on, Rodrick states that they may be brothers, but will never be friends.  Greg and Rodrick are punished further by being forced to spend the weekend with their grandfather at his retirement home, much to their dismay. However, Greg runs into Holly Hills, his new classmate whom he has a crush on, visiting her grandmother; Holly also turns out to be the middle child between a malicious older sibling and spoiled younger sibling, so she and Greg become good friends.  At the talent show the next week, Rodrick finds out that he has been kicked out of his own band by Bill Walter, a guitarist he recently recruited, and Rowley is not able to perform his magic act due to his assistant having stage fright. Having witnessed the entire conflict and feeling sorry for Rodrick, Greg strikes a deal with Susan that he will stand in as Rowley's assistant if she lets Rodrick perform, which she agrees to. Despite multiple mishaps, "the Remarkable Rowley" is praised by the audience, including Holly, believing the act is actually a comedy skit and the mistakes are intentional, but they aren't as impressed by Löded Diper until Susan starts dancing at the edge of the stage, prompting the crowd to join in. Frank tapes the footage of Susan dancing and he and Greg agree to keep it a secret. Rodrick kicks Bill out of the band in retaliation and reconciles with Greg.  In a mid-credits scene, Greg and Rowley upload the footage of Susan dancing onto YouTube, which goes viral. Rodrick, having learned about this, shouts "Greg, you are so dead!".