Nick is a former Broadway actor who now works as a production manager for the stage musical "One Hit Wonderland", a musical journey through one-hit wonders of the past. His ex-girlfriend Chloe happens to be an understudy, making run-ins backstage between them awkward.   As part of the show’s opening night on Broadway, Nick must deal with a seemingly never-ending list of dilemmas and crises, including helping his anxious assistant Alex, consoling a dancer who has a meltdown over a deceased pet, and keeping watch on Brooke, a quirky, unstable former Broadway star. In addition, an argument breaks out between dancers Brandy and Malcolm over men, just minutes before the opening curtain. Nick has to get the show headliner JC Chasez, a former member of boy band NSYNC who is now a self-absorbed womanizer, to focus by ousting chorus girls from his dressing room.  Nick is upset to learn Chloe has had sex with JC, albeit while drunk. He confides to Malcolm that  he broke up with Chloe a year ago, when she wanted them to move in after four years together. Meanwhile, Brooke is accidentally knocked out by Ron from props, so Chloe has to take her place onstage. Nick, wary of Chloe's involvement with JC, is not very encouraging of her debut. When she comes onstage, Chloe seems briefly frozen, but becomes unstuck and nails her performance. When Nick congratulates her, she snubs him.  Malcolm goes into detail with Nick about his hookup with Brandy's boyfriend. Brandy confronts Malcolm, and she proposes a competition to see who can seduce someone first. Malcolm chooses fellow dancer Xavier, who he says is bisexual.   JC asks Nick to send Chloe to his dressing room to "rehearse" during intermission, with the implication he has other intentions. While checking on Brooke, Nick gives her two pills that he believes are aspirin from stage medic Lee’s jacket, but are actually ecstasy. When Nick realizes his mistake, he tries to get Brooke to vomit the pills back up, but he is unsuccessful and leaves Ron to watch her in the dressing room.   Malcolm attempts to seduce Xavier under the guise of massaging him. Xavier resists Malcolm’s advances, which delights Brandy, but Malcolm insists he's still in the running to win the competition. Brooke, now underneath the drug’s influence, manages to escape from Ron. Brooke makes it to a small stage lift. Nick tries to get Brooke out of the lift but inadvertently ends up onstage himself.  During intermission, Chloe goes into JC's dressing room as requested. JC tries to serenade her, but she is not impressed. He confesses that he puts up a front of being a confident guy, when really he knows he is washed-up. Chloe says she is not interested in him romantically, but appreciates his candidness. Malcolm and his crew face off with Brandy's for Xavier, who chooses Malcolm.  Goldmeyer, a producer and Nick’s boss, gives a coveted job offer to Chloe; she is initially dazed but swiftly accepts. Nick is dismayed to learn she's leaving NYC. Chloe confesses she still loves him, but he doesn't meet her halfway. While she goes to say her goodbyes to the crew and dancers, Nick complains about the situation to Malcolm. Malcolm, fed up with Nick’s negativity, tells Nick if he does not take chances, he will never move ahead with his life.  Finally inspired, Nick takes to the stage, which he has not performed on since his acting days. He serenades Chloe with the song "To Be with You" and they kiss.