In 1916, a group of young Americans go to France to serve in the French Air Service, L'Aéronautique militaire, during World War I. The recruits are under the command of French Captain Georges Thenault, with veteran flying ace Reed Cassidy as their mentor.  The pilots struggle to meet the demands of flying and to prepare for the aerial dogfights that will dominate their missions to the front lines. After pilot Blaine Rawlings' plane runs out of fuel and crashes during a practice flight, he meets a young woman named Lucienne after. Over time, the two develop a relationship.  Lucienne expresses concern to Rawlins about the dangerousness of wartime military aviation.  The recruits embark on their first mission, in which they escort bombers during an attack on a German ammunitation depot in Jametz.  During the mission, the rookie pilots are ambushed by German warplanes, and two are killed in the battle. (Toddman and Dewitt)  A third rookie (Nunn) successfully makes an emergency landing but is killed on the ground by "the Black Falcon" - a German pilot flying a black aircraft.  The more chivalrous German pilot Franz Wolferd shakes his head in disapproval at this act.  During a later battle, Rawlings' machine gun jams.  Wolferd, the pilot he was chasing, flies beside him and salutes before banking away, sparing his opponent's life as penance for the unfair killing of Nunn on the ground. Higgins is killed during the battle, and Jensen suffers an emotional breakdown during the night, unable to fly anymore due to shock.  The French military learn that Beagle faked some of his personal information, and as a result, he is accused of being a spy.  Beagle comes clean about a crime he committed in the United States, and is allowed to stay on.  Germans warplanes attack a column of civilians, and the American pilots head off to intercept them.  Rawlings initially spares Wolferd, but later kills him during the engagement when Wolferd dives his plane after another American pilot.  Beagle's plane is brought down over no man's land, and his hand is pinned down in the crash.  Rawlings lands nearby and makes his way to Beagle, who is also helped by a few French soldiers from nearby trenches, but they are unable to free him.  Ultimately, Rawlings is forced to amputate Beagle's; Beagle is thereafter brought to safety.  Learning that German forces have advanced into Lucienne's village, Rawlings steals a plane in the middle of the night and attempts to rescue them; Lucienne is subsequently wounded and taken to a hospital.  Returning to base, Rawlins is praised by the commander and awarded the Croix de Guerre medal for bravery.  The Americans are ordered to attack a German zeppelin; during this attack, Porter is killed and Reed Cassidy is mortally wounded by the Black Falcon.  Before succumbing to his wounds, Reed purposely crashes into the zeppelin, destroying it.  Afer the battle, Rawlings reunites with Lucienne before she leaves for Paris. Rawlings’ plane is presented with an eagle, which was Cassidy's insignia, and he is promoted to Squadron Leader.  While escorting another bombing run on the ammunition depot in Jametz, in which Lowry is forced to shoot himself when his plane catches fire, Rawlings becomes determined to exact revenge on the Black Falcon. He is attacked by multiple enemy planes, but Jensen, who had broken down earlier but decided to keep flying, helps him shoot down all the enemy fighters except the Black Falcon. With the enemy fighters shot down, Rawlings engages in a dogfight with the Falcon. After being bested in combat and wounded, Rawlings comes alongside and fatally shoots the Black Falcon with his pistol. Rawlings and his squadron return to base.  The film ends with scenes of the surviving pilots' lives after the battle. Jensen flies for the rest of the war, returning to Nebraska where he receives a hero's welcome. Skinner enlists in the US Army but is kept from flying due to his race; he later joins the Airmail Service. Beagle marries an Italian woman and starts a flying circus. Rawlings goes to Paris but does not find Lucienne. He later becomes owner one of the largest ranches in Texas, but never flies again.