Zoey Brooks, now a 32-year-old struggling television producer for a reality series called "LOVE: Fully Charged," is asked by her best friend Quinn Pensky to be the maid of honor in her and Logan Reese's upcoming wedding, which is scheduled for the same weekend as the LOVE: Fully Charged season finale. Zoey also has unresolved feelings for the best man, Chase Matthews, whom she has not seen or spoken to since abandoning him on a Hawaiian vacation after high school; Chase has since started dating another woman. Zoey devises an elaborate plan to fulfill both commitments, hiring Todd Schupert, an actor who auditioned for LOVE: Fully Charged, to pose as her boyfriend.  Zoey reunites with her school friends at the pre-wedding party: Quinn, now a successful inventor; Logan, who has inherited his father's fortune; Stacey Dillsen, now the runner of a popular murder podcast; Mark Del Figgalo, Stacey's husband and field producer; Michael Barret, now a successful rap producer; and Chase, now an elementary school teacher. After tending to Jordan B., one of the finalists on LOVE: Fully Charged, Zoey returns to the party and finds a hiding Quinn, who reveals that she is uncomfortable with the size and opulence of the wedding. The group goes to a karaoke bar, where a confrontation ensues between Todd and Chase, the latter claiming that he is over Zoey.  The next day, Todd watches Jordan so that Zoey can attend the wedding rehearsal, but Jordan gets amnesia from a head injury and forgets his lines for the finale. On the day of the wedding and finale, Zoey goes to pick up the rings, with Chase inadvertently joining her. Zoey and Chase are distant at first, but after being pressured into kissing by the jewelers (who mistook them for Quinn and Logan), they warm up to each other. Zoey apologizes to Chase for abandoning him in Hawaii and reveals that she was afraid that things between them would end poorly, as they always had. She admits she still has feelings for him, and they share another, more genuine kiss.  En route back to the wedding, Zoey's car dies on the side of the road, forcing her and Chase to continue on foot. They arrive just in time and the ceremony starts, as does the finale, Zoey simultaneously fulfilling her maid of honor duties and feeding lines to Jordan via her phone and earbuds. While giving the welcome speech, Stacey receives a lead suggesting Todd is a serial killer she and Mark have been searching for, and a confused Zoey feeds Jordan the wrong lines, ruining the finale. Zoey confesses that she is working and that Todd is not her boyfriend but actually an actor. Quinn, fed up with Zoey's dishonesty and Logan's insistence on making the wedding a spectacle, calls off the ceremony and runs away in tears, while a guilt-ridden Zoey is fired. thumb|254x254px|Jamie Lynn Spears in character as Zoey Brooks in the film. On the beach, Chase reveals to Zoey that he and his girlfriend broke up two weeks prior and that she accompanied him to the wedding only so he would not be alone. Zoey has an idea and takes the gang back to their old school, Pacific Coast Academy (now abandoned following its closure stemming from issues of fraud and embezzlement), where they spruce the place up. Logan apologizes to Quinn and takes her to PCA, where the gang has set up an informal wedding venue. After the ceremony, Zoey's boss calls to tell her the finale turned out to be a huge success and offers her a promotion, which she accepts with some conditions. While dancing, she and Chase profess their love for each other and kiss.  A mid-credits scene shows Todd putting a squirming bag in the trunk of his car, implying that Stacey and Mark's suspicions that he is the killer are correct.