Middle aged Kath and her slacker boyfriend Max travel several hours to a woodland cabin which Max has rented for the weekend. When they arrive, late at night, they find a car there and a man named Al standing outside claiming that he has already rented it. Just as Max and Kath are about to leave, Al's girlfriend Greta emerges and suggests that the two should stay.  Kath and Max agree to play a romance themed board game to get to know the stand-offish Al and the lively, but abrasive, Greta. Kath tells them how she met Max when he was a student of hers.  Tired, Kath goes to bed early while the other three stay up.  The next morning, Kath awakens to find everyone gone.  Venturing into the surrounding woods, she finds Al, crying.  He explains that he found Greta and Max having sex and that the two left together. Angered, Kath returns to the city.  Despite being urged by her friends to move on, Kath decides to try and find Greta and learn what happened.  She locates contact info for the cabin owner and arranges a meeting on a pretext. Kath finds the owner, Nicholas Barlow, to be friendly and charming.  Nicholas helps Kath track Greta to an underground rave.  They split up to search for her and Kath encounters Greta, who apologises for stealing Max but says that she loves him. Kath and Nicholas become closer as they commiserate over their shared losses.  He explains that he was once a scientist at a biotech start up, but that he gave that life up when his father died of a hereditary disease.  Nicholas says that he has the same disease and is using experimental treatments on himself.  Flashbacks reveal Max leaving a party after an argument with Kath.  He runs into Al and Greta at a liquor store and goes drinking with them.  After asking him some odd questions they invite him to come to a party at the cabin. Greta and Al had sedated Max and kept him hidden until she left. Nicholas, who turns out to be Al's father, arrives at the cabin and discovers what they've done.  Al explains that they want Max to be a test subject for Nicholas' treatments.    In the present Kath visits Nicholas at his cabin.  When he leaves to get some wood for a fire she discovers a picture of him with Al.  In the woods she discovers Max, locked in a shipping container with medical equipment attached.  Nicholas, Al and Greta arrive.  Nicholas tries to convince Kath that what he's doing is okay.  Greta reveals that Nicholas isn't really sick, but is instead using Max as part of a treatment to keep himself youthful.  Kath asks Nicholas to use Greta to give her the same treatment. As Nicholas and Al subdue Greta, Kath frees Max, but a delusional Max pulls out his IV, causing himself to bleed to death. Kath locks Nicholas, Al and Greta in the shipping container and wanders back into the cabin.