Jean Seberg, an American actress known for playing the female lead in Jean-Luc Godard's film Breathless, bids her husband, Romain Gary, and child farewell in Paris before leaving for Los Angeles. On the jet flight in first class, she witnesses a Black activist insisting on sitting in first class and offering to pay for the seats. The activist demands preferential treatment for Malcolm X's widow, claiming she should be treated like "royalty"; Seberg appears to be attracted to the passenger, who introduces himself as Hakim Jamal, a member of the Black Panther Party (BPP).  Upon landing in the U.S., Seberg notices a group of Black activists protesting at the airport, indicating their displeasure with the treatment Jamal and his traveling companions received on the flight. She joins them and raises her fist in a Black power salute in solidarity. Unbeknownst to her, undercover FBI agents, including Jack Solomon, are at the airport. Solomon suggests the FBI shadow her activities while she is in the U.S. and arranges to have her phone conversations taped due to her perceived association with the Black Power movement.  After telling Jamal she knows the incident on the plane was staged to get her attention, Seberg begins a sexual relationship with him, despite both of them being married. The FBI's surveillance program COINTELPRO begins to target Seberg, recording her and Jamal having sex and playing it to Jamal's wife, Dorothy, over the phone.   Jamal ends things with Seberg after Dorothy confronts him, leaving Seberg devastated. She becomes increasingly suspicious, fearing her life is being monitored. Solomon anonymously calls Seberg to warn her to sever her ties with the movement.  Seberg becomes pregnant by an unknown person. Continuing their surveillance and harassment of her for years, COINTELPRO agents create a rumor that the baby was fathered by a member of the BPP and feed it to the media. Seberg attempts suicide, which leads to her unborn daughter dying. The combination of her daughter's death and the FBI's smear campaign about the child's paternity send her into a deep depression.   Seberg announces she would sue the publication that published the rumor. Solomon, wanting to come clean, shows her the FBI file on her at a bar, confirming her suspicions. After the encounter, the real-life Seberg is said to have moved back to Paris while still supporting the BPP and died in 1979 due to a probable suicide.