The film begins with two dynamite fishermen working. They disturb an enormous saltwater crocodile and the beast attacks, mutilates, and kills both of them.  Jack McQuade runs a crocodile farm in Thailand with the help of his sister,Allison, and her son, Theo. A new neighboring resort owned by the Konsong brothers constantly harasses Jack. They want to get Jack shut down because they have buildings on the land and want to steal the rest. The Konsong brothers set animal welfare, bill collectors, and tax collectors on the farm. As animal welfare investigator, Evelyn Namwong, refuses to shut down the farm, having found only minor violations, she is fired. After the beast eats two teenagers, the Konsongs send goons to break in and release three of the farm's crocodiles. Jack's crocodiles are blamed, and he gets orders to shut down until further notice.  The beast that killed the teens reappears and eats a young boy near the docks. It is filmed by a tourist nearby and identified as a 20-foot saltwater crocodile. This crocodile is much larger and of a different species than Jack's crocs. Jack's farm is cleared, and he is able to reopen. With the beast continuing to snack on the local population, Jack and Evelyn run into Hawkins, a man who has been hunting the large croc for months. Hawkins wants to get avenge its many victims. Hawkins, Evelyn, and Jack join forces to find and kill the beast. While they are talking, they hear gunfire. Two hunters claim to have killed the monster, but it is actually one of Jack's escaped crocs. They quickly rush over, only to see the real beast kill one of the hunters.  While they hunt the beast, the Konsongs send someone to kill Allison because she paid Jack's taxes and other bills to help him out. The goon tries to run her down but misses. He leaves behind his cell phone, which links him back to Andy Konsong. Andy heads home to warn his brother that their plot has been uncovered. He finds his brother in pieces, floating in a bloodied pool. It is clearly another attack of the beast. Panicked, Andy calls 911 and then gets sick to his stomach. While Andy is throwing up in the pool, the beast emerges and kills him.  Evelyn, Jack, Hawkins, and the crocodile farm manager go looking for the beast's pit. Allison and Theo follow in a small boat. The beast appears and snatches Allison. Jack and the rest of the team continue searching for the pit underwater, while Hawkins and Theo go to search on land. They find the pit and Allison. She is unconscious, but still alive. She wakes up to see the beast with its jaws right in front of her head, but it leaves when it hears Jack calling for her. It comes up behind Jack, gets a hold of his foot, and drags him underwater. As it goes down, Hawkins and Theo shoot at it. Hawkins manages to kill it. Jack is trapped underwater, with his leg in the croc's mouth. Hawkins is too high up to help Jack, and Allison can't get the beast's mouth open. Hawkins advises Allison to cut off Jack's leg to free him. Instead, the park manager uses a bang stick to blast open its mouth, and Jack gets to keep his leg.