Grace of Monaco is focused on former Hollywood star Grace Kelly's crisis of marriage and identity, during a dispute between Monaco's Prince Rainier III and France's Charles de Gaulle in 1962, as well as her considering a return to Hollywood to film Alfred Hitchcock's Marnie.  In 1962, several years after her departure from Hollywood in 1956, Hitchcock visits Princess Grace in Monaco with an invitation to return to Hollywood to star in his new film Marnie. The offer comes with a lucrative incentive of a million-dollar contract if she accepts his offer for the starring role. Princess Grace is intrigued by the offer. Her role as the wife of a head of state has been limited in scope and dealing mostly with charity work for hospitals and humanitarian efforts. She asks her husband for permission and he initially appears to be agreeable to her taking the role if she wants the part.  In the meantime, tensions between France and Monaco are growing due to the dependence which France associates with the trade favors it has been offering to Monaco throughout the 20th century. France initiates diplomatic measures to get Monaco to accept a position of being a province within France, in the hope that Prince Rainier will give up his sovereign control over Monaco. The Prince is reticent to accept any such offer. This, in turn, provokes France to begin initial steps toward a trade embargo against Monaco. The French government also initiates clandestine contact with close members of the prince's family, namely his sister and her husband, to help expedite the prince's capitulation to French demands in exchange for favors. The tensions also created differences in opinions of the prince and his wife, which cause the prince to wish to take back his offer to allow Grace to accept the film offer from Hitchcock. The princess appears to need to take stock of her responsibilities and re-evaluate her priorities.  She decides to increase her concern for her participation in the improvement of local hospitals and Red Cross aid throughout Europe, and she organizes a charity ball to take place in October for the purposes of fund raising and improving the prestige of Monaco in the process. Unexpectedly, she receives a report presenting photographic evidence that the prince's sister has been covertly negotiating with France and de Gaulle against the interests of the prince, which she promptly reports to the prince. The prince denounces his sister's conduct and takes steps to have her exiled from Monaco by due process of law. Princess Grace decides that the Hollywood offer is no longer a part of her life and no longer a viable option to her given her new diplomatic and political responsibilities in Monaco. Her international charity ball for the Red Cross is a grand success and Monaco gains significant international political capital from the event, which allows the prince and princess to preserve the sovereignty of Monaco.