Rebecca Miles relocates to Collingswood, New Jersey to attend Rutgers University, renting a room in a historic house. On Rebecca's twenty-first birthday, her boyfriend, Johnny, gifts her a webcam so the two can maintain a long-distance relationship. Johnny, communicating with his friend Billy—also via webcam—is introduced to Vera Madeline, an online psychic whom Billy claims contacted his deceased father. Rebecca is skeptical of Vera, and offers to have a virtual session with her first. During the video conference, Vera appears in a darkened room, backlit by two candelabras, and donning sunglasses. Rebecca gives Vera a false name, but shortly into her psychic reading, Vera calls Rebecca by her actual name. This piques Rebecca's interest, but she chalks it up to Vera having some method of caller identification.  When Johnny has a session with Vera, she asks who referred him, and he mentions Rebecca. Vera comments that Collingswood is well-known to psychics and mediums due to grim historical events that occurred there involving a secret society founded by a French immigrant named Alan Tashi, who in the 1800s, murdered and mutilated nine girls, cutting out their eyes and sliding their mouths into grotesque smiles before disposing of their bodies in a well nearby. When the townspeople attempted to seek vengeance, they stormed Tashi's home, but found it empty; in the attic, they discovered a wooden shaker toy, but no sign of Tashi, Vera urges Johnny to have Rebecca contact her again for another session, imparting that Rebecca is a "sensitive," and that she has important information for her.  Upon further investigation, Johnny discovers that the house Rebecca is living in was the site of a murder–suicide four years prior, in which a judge drowned his children in the bathtub before killing his wife, and then, himself. In crime scene photos published online, Johnny glimpses a wooden shaker toy. Armed with this knowledge, Johnny worries about Rebecca, who has been left alone in the house by the homeowners over the Halloween weekend. Rebecca begins to look for evidence of the supposed secret society in Collingswood, recording footage as she drives around town, but is unable to locate the address of the original Tashi home.  On Saturday, Halloween, Rebecca again connects with Vera for a video conference, inquiring about the secret society Vera had told Johnny about—Vera, however, denies having any knowledge of the matter, and acts as though she has never spoken to Rebecca. Furthermore, she claims her psychic readings are for entertainment purposes only. Rebecca video calls Johnny to tell him about her call with Vera. While perusing the bookshelf in the den of the home, Rebecca finds postcards depicting a wooden shaker toy resembling the one left behind in Alan Tashi's absence, as well as in the crime scene photos. Rebecca recalls that Vera spoke in French during one of their sessions, and begins to suspect that Vera might be a member of the secret society.  Johnny manages to contact Vera again, who tells him to get Rebecca out of the house, and alludes to the fact that the secret society practiced rituals in the attic of the house. Meanwhile, Rebecca goes for a drive to get food. On the way home, she again attempts to locate the Tashi residence, and manages to find it. When she returns home, Johnny tells her what Vera told him. A defiant Rebecca decides to explore the attic, recording her endeavor with the webcam as Johnny watches. She finds a secret room, where she locates a number of old photographs and occult paraphernalia. Her webcam stream is interrupted by a video call from Vera, who warns her to leave. Vera removes her sunglasses, revealing one glass eye—she explains that she narrowly escaped the cult, who cut out one of her eyes.  Vera's call suddenly ends, and Rebecca reconnects with Johnny, who watches as she attempts to flee the attic in a panic, but is confronted by Alan Tashi. Simultaneously, an unknown figure emerges from the closed door behind Johnny and attacks him.