In 480 B.C., one year after the Battle of Thermopylae, Dilios, a hoplite in the Spartan army, begins his story of Leonidas I from childhood to kingship via Spartan doctrine.   A Persian herald arrives at Sparta demanding "earth and water" as a token of submission to King Xerxes. He urges Leonidas to submit and insults Queen Gorgo. In response, Leonidas and the Spartan soldiers threw the Persian herald and his Persian envoy into the bottomless pit. Leonidas then visits the Ephors, proposing a strategy to drive back the Persians through Thermopylae to funnel the Persians into a narrow pass, giving the Greeks' heavy infantry the advantage over the numerically superior Persian light infantry. The Ephors warn Leonidas that the Carneia is approaching and that Sparta should not wage war during that time. They consult the Oracle, who decrees that Sparta should honor the Carneia. As Leonidas angrily departs, an agent from Xerxes appears alongside a Spartan politician, Theron, rewarding the Ephors for their covert support.  Although the Ephors have denied him permission to mobilize Sparta's army, Leonidas gathers three hundred soldiers. Theron and the Council confront Leonidas about defying the Ephors by going to war. Leonidas suggests that they will not go, but they depart for war shortly thereafter. They are joined by a force of a few thousand Arcadians and other Greeks led by Daxos. They reach Thermopylae, watching a storm sinking many Persian navy ships at the Aegean Sea. The Spartans then scout out a large Persian encampment and constructed the wall, using slain Persian scouts as mortar.   Meanwhile, Leonidas encounters Ephialtes, a deformed Spartan whose parents fled Sparta to spare him certain infanticide. Ephialtes asks to join Leonidas' army and warns him of a secret goat path the Persians could use to outflank and surround the Spartans. Though sympathetic, Leonidas rejects him since his deformity could compromise the phalanx formation.  The battle begins soon after the Spartans' refusal to lay down their weapons. Because of the narrowed pathway, the Spartans repel many waves of the advancing Persian army. Xerxes personally approaches Leonidas and offers him immense wealth and power in exchange for his submission. Leonidas declines and mocks the inferior quality of Xerxes' warriors. That night, Xerxes sends in his elite guard, the Immortals, accompanied by the monstrous Uber Immortal, but the Greeks are once again victorious.   On the second day, Xerxes sends in new waves of armies, including war elephants, with no success. During a battle, Astinos is killed. Meanwhile, an embittered Ephialtes has defected to Xerxes and reveals the secret path in exchange for wealth, women, and a uniform. The Arcadians retreat upon learning of Ephialtes' betrayal, but the Spartans choose to stay. Leonidas orders an injured but reluctant Dilios to return to Sparta and inform his compatriots of what has happened.  In Sparta, Queen Gorgo has been attempting to persuade the Spartan Council to send reinforcements to aid the 300 Spartan soldiers making their last stand. Gorgo comes to Theron for help having been allowed to make her plea to the Council, but Theron rapes her in exchange for his needed assistance, and the next day betrays her and attempts to defame her as an adultress before the Council. Gorgo kills Theron, revealing within his robe a bag of Xerxes' gold. Acknowledging his betrayal, the Council unanimously agrees to send reinforcements. On the third day the Persians, led by Ephialtes, traverse the secret path, encircling the Spartans. Xerxes' general again demands their surrender, but the Spartans refused and Stelios kills the general. Angered, Xerxes orders his troops to attack. Leonidas throws his spear at Xerxes, slicing his face to prove the God-King's mortality. Leonidas and the remaining Spartans fight to the last man until they finally succumb to an arrow barrage.  Dilios concludes his tale before the Spartan Council. Inspired by Leonidas's sacrifice, the Greeks mobilize an army with Sparta leading the charge. Dilios, now head of the Spartan army, leads them to battle against the Persians.