An interconnected group of recent high school grads navigates through personal issues while enjoying their "last summer" before moving on to college.  Griffin and Phoebe Griffin Hourigan, a prep school grad, is preparing to enter Columbia University, thanks to nepotism (his father), despite wanting to attend Berklee College of Music. At a party, he reencounters Phoebe Fisher, a childhood friend he has always had a crush on. Learning that she is making a documentary, he volunteers to help.  He asks her out, but she initially declines, explaining she must spend the summer focusing on making her film. They view a clip from the documentary where a couple plan for a long-distance relationship, and both predict it won't last. He helps her mix the audio, becoming closer, and soon begin dating.  Phoebe, wanting to attend NYU, explains she has to  win the festival to pay for school. She also encourages him to follow his passion for music. Meanwhile, Griffin learns that his father is having an affair with Phoebe's single mother. He doesn't tell her until after Griffin's mother finds out and ends it. A devastated Phoebe blames Griffin for saying nothing, breaking it off.  Apologizing directly to Phoebe's mother, he then sends Phoebe her favorite takeout and she invites him to the documentary premiere. It is well-received, and Phoebe is able to attend NYU. They reconcile, and he has decided to follow his dreams and attend Berklee. As they won't both be attending school in NYC, they say they'll try long-distance, then jokingly say it is doomed.  Erin and Alec Erin and Alec, a high school power couple for two years, agree to break up before leaving for college. Though they plan to be respectful even while apart, Erin is shocked when Alec quickly falls under the spell of Paige Wilcox, a popular, vapid classmate who immediately snatches him up. Though Erin secretly misses Alec, she tries to move on, focusing on her thankless job as a personal assistant.  Erin attends a Cubs game with best friend Audrey, who gets baseline tickets from her employer. During the game, rookie Ricky Santos catches a ball onto her lap and later asks her out. Charmed by the friendly and homey Ricky, they begin dating. Alec breaks up with dull-witted Paige and unsuccessfully tries to win Erin back, becoming jealous when he learns of her relationship with Ricky.  Though Ricky tells Erin that they are exclusive, surprising him at home she encounters his ex. He hastily explains their situation is "complicated." Erin breaks up with him, regretting leaving Alec. Some time later, Alec comes to her send off party; they decide to be friends again, moments before kissing and possibly renewing their relationship.  Audrey Audrey, a working-class student, is rejected by all but one of her college choices, as her grades were average as she needed to work while in school. Disappointed, she decides to pursue her last choice, waitlisted option while taking up a job as a nanny to precocious child actress, Lilah. Lilah's wealthy and self-centered mother, who had been an extra in Sixteen Candles, is determined to make Lilah a star. Though rude and curt at first, she quickly warms to the grounded Audrey.  Audrey learns that Lilah is uninterested in being a star and feels controlled by her overbearing mother. In turn, Audrey confesses her own feelings of disappointment that she is always settling for less. Waiting for an audition on AGT that could help launch a 'career,' they simultaneously decide to skip it and go to the beach, as Lilah desires. Her mother is furious she missed the audition, firing Audrey, who happily parts ways with a cheered Lilah.  Though eventually accepted by her safety school, Audrey, when told initially she would be on academic probation, excluding her from much of student life on campus, she declines. Instead, she volunteers for Teachers Without Borders, having discovered her talent for working with children.  Foster Foster, Alec's best friend and coworker, is attempting to go through a "wishlist" of girls he would like to sleep with. Alec believes that it is offensive, but Foster is determined to see it through; however, he is repeatedly rejected and ignored by women. After attempting to hook up with a virginal Christian girl, he thinks he is making progress with another at a party, only to discover his wishlist went viral, and no one will sleep with him now.  Discussing the disappointment with Alec, Foster admits that, due to his busy schedule in school, he is actually a virgin; the wishlist was his attempt to make up for lost time. Alec assures him that he does not need to worry. Later, Alec leaves Foster to handle an invoice as he departs to reconnect with Erin. Foster meets with the client, an attractive divorcée, who seductively admits she has been watching him all week, inviting him in. Foster looks back at the audience with a smile before closing the door.  Chad and Reece Chad and Reece, two nerdy and unpopular best friends, stop at a bar on the way to a wedding rehearsal dinner and are mistaken for professional traders, as businessmen frequent the bar. The waitress fails to card them, they enjoy drinks, conversation, and karaoke with the businessmen, bluffing their way into their circle. Becoming regulars and networking with the other patrons, they are eventually approached by two twenty-somethings, Janet and Claire, who begin dating them. Though enthralled at first, Chad feels guilty about deceiving the women, who they are sincerely connecting with, and is concerned that they are getting too deep into the lie. Reece begs him to keep the deception going, reminding him that they have never before been so popular and well-liked.  Eventually, Chad confesses he and Reece are actually only 18. An amused Claire reveals that she and Janet knew the entire time, but had gone along with it because they genuinely like them, insisting she finds him cool. Relieved, Chad jokingly asks if they can get married that day, and they resume their relationship.