Empty nesters Jan and Brian Vokes lead an uneventful, mundane life in Wales. She is a supermarket cashier and regularly helps her elderly parents while he stays home.  At her second job at the pub, Jan overhears Howard Davies telling stories about a winning horse he once owned. Curious, she finds a breeders guidebook through an ad in Horse and Hound and does her research. Telling Brian about her idea to breed a racehorse, he thinks she's mad.   Soon the couple are buying Rewbell, once a racehorse but sold to them as a brood mare for £300. In the pub, Jan asks Howard for help choosing a stud, and he's not encouraging. She aims to form a syndicate of 20 locals contributing £10 per week.  Passing out flyers all over town, initially Jan's evening pitch meeting seems to be an epic fail, but they do get their 20-member syndicate formed. At the farm while awaiting the insemination, she tells Brian that she needs this project to motivate her.  Rewbell doesn't survive the birth, but her foal is born soundly. Their syndicate agrees to name the colt Dream Alliance. Once Howard deems him ready, the Vokes take him to trainer Phillip Hobbs, who finally takes him on for a trial period. Considered race-ready, Dream rises through the ranks with grit and determination.   When he wins the King Edward's Challenge, another breeder offers to buy Dream, which Jan, Brian and Howard disregard. However, some of the others in the syndicate are angered at her quick refusal. Feeling inspired, Howard quits his accounting job which he hated and opens his own firm aimed at the not rich. Jan asks why and he explains he wanted to do better than his dad, who gave up trying to be a jockey, spending his life in a factory.   A setback comes when Dream injures a tendon. Again, those in the syndicate focused on the bottom line are for putting him down, but Jan reminds them that he brought them hope and have given them pride. After hours of surgery, and days of rest and stem cell treatment Hobbs believes not only that the tendon is stronger than ever, but he could race in the upcoming Welsh Grand National.  Jan fears for Dream's well-being, but the rest of the syndicate overrules her. He wins the race, going on to continue racing for a decade before retiring. The Vokes have started a new syndicate and have a new project as of 2019.