Shortly before fleeing the conservative countryside in the late 1960s and moving to New York City, Danny Winters, a gay boy from Indiana, is discovered by friends while making love with his boyfriend. His father is upset, and while his mother is ambivalent as she loves her son, she does not stand up to her husband either. His father then refuses to sign Danny's scholarship application for Columbia University where Danny has been accepted, but Danny departs for New York anyway, leaving behind his supportive little sister, Phoebe.  After reaching Christopher Street in Greenwich Village, he is befriended by a multiracial group of young, gay, and genderfluid street people and drag queens. He witnesses police violence against his new friends. Danny goes with his friends to the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar, and is asked for a dance by a man, Trevor, who is a member of the Mattachine Society, a homophile rights group. Later that night, the police raid the bar and arrest some customers, including Danny's new friend, Ray. Danny, who did not get arrested because he was not cross-dressing, meets up with Ray at the police station the next day. Danny, with no job prospects, tries prostitution and receives oral sex from another man. Danny then goes to a meeting of the Mattachine Society, who work to advance gay rights through conforming to mainstream society and working within the system rather than through radicalism. There he finds Trevor and, though their politics differ, they end up spending the night together.  Danny soon finds Trevor with another man, and, heartbroken, he decides to leave the Village. Immediately after, he is abducted and forcibly sent out to a high-class prostitution business, at the direction of Ed Murphy, who runs the Stonewall Inn. Murphy has colluded with corrupt policemen and exploited homeless gay youth to his own advantage. Danny escapes, aided by Ray, and the two go to the bar to confront Murphy. The police then raid the bar and arrest some customers again. Danny is thrown onto the street as well as the rest of the customers, and, despite Trevor attempting to stop him, hurls a brick into one of the bar's windows, screaming "Gay power!" This instigates the crowd to attack the police, who lock themselves up in the bar in response.  One year later, after finishing his first year at the university, Danny returns to his parents' home and tells his sister that he is going to attend the gay liberation march on Christopher Street. The film ends on the day of the march. Danny is marching in the street with his friends. He looks over at the sidewalk and sees that his mother and sister have come to support him.