The film is based on the life stories of the eccentric paternal aunt and first cousin of Jackie Kennedy, both named Edith Bouvier Beale. The elder Edith Bouvier Beale was the sister of Jackie Kennedy's father John Vernou Bouvier III and was nicknamed "Big Edie" while her daughter was called "Little Edie". The Beale women were members of New York City's high society but in their later years they withdrew from city life, living at their Long Island summer home/estate Grey Gardens. The house fell into a state of disrepair that gave the Beale women notoriety.  Through flashbacks, we are shown the history of the family's move into the estate. Phelan Beale, husband of Big Edie and father of Little Edie, eventually divorced his wife. In the movie, Little Edie decides to move to New York to pursue a career in acting and an ill-fated romance with high-profile married man Julius "Cap" Krug.  Her father tells her that she has to find a husband to support her lifestyle. Little Edie sadly and slowly realizes her fate is to remain her mother's companion at Grey Gardens. After Phelan dies, their two sons tell their mother that there is little money and she should sell the estate and move to Florida. Despite her son's attempt to help, Big Edie pridefully declares that the house is in her name, and that the only way she'll leave is if she dies. The two women become reclusive and known around town as the highly eccentric proprietors of the home, which has become decrepit and full of stray animals which are taken in by the Beale women. Because of this, the Suffolk County, New York health department comes with a warrant to inspect the mansion and see how it is overrun by cats, raccoons, and mountains of garbage. This causes them to condemn the property and put an eviction notice on the door.  Soon after, Jackie visits and is shocked by the home's condition and by the oddball behavior of the women. Seeing as how she does not want to let the location or many of her childhood memories be taken down, she and her sister, Lee Radziwill, pay for the cleanup and restoration of the mansion.  During one of Radziwill's trips to the mansion, she introduces Big and Little Edie to documentarians Albert and David Maysles, who are making a film about her. A year later, the Maysles come back and say that Radziwill stopped cooperating but they decided that since they found Big and Little Edie to be the most interesting parts of the footage they shot, they asked to do one on them. The film then depicts the filming of various scenes of the documentary, Grey Gardens. When the documentary is finished, Little Edie plans to attend the premiere but her mother tries to discourage it out of spite and the two women fight before Little Edie escapes. Finding one of Big Edie's favorite cats, Whiskers, Little Edie goes back to her and Big Edie tearfully realizes that she has held her daughter back from having a life. She proclaims that she should have let her stay in New York. Reconciling, Big Edie gives her blessing for Little Edie to attend the premiere, and gives her her wedding earrings and necklace to wear, as she intended to give them to her when she got married. As Little Edie attends the premiere, she receives a standing ovation from the audience after its conclusion. Back at the mansion, Big Edie receives a call from Walter Goodman of The New York Times, and when he asks if he can get a comment from her of what she thinks about the Maysles film, she says, "No, Mr. Goodman, it's all in the movie", before she hangs up on him. She laughs as she repeats her last remark to Whiskers.  The movie ends with Little Edie singing "Tea for Two" at the Reno Sweeney cabaret in Greenwich Village and the quote "My mother gave me a truly priceless life."