Sam Tiler has been struggling to recover from his encounter with Jack Frost last Christmas. To get away from the stress, Sam's wife, Anne, suggests a tropical vacation to attend the wedding of his deputy, Joe, and his fiancé, Marla. Sam reluctantly agrees.  Meanwhile, the FBI uses antifreeze to dissolve Jack and test the remains for genetic material. An accident causes Jack to wake up, causing him to reform and break free. Jack, now sharing a psychic link with Sam, because of Sam's blood mixing with Jack in the antifreeze, follows Sam.  The vacationers arrive to a greeting by the eccentric Colonel Hickering and his assistants Captain Fun and Bobby. Jack washes ashore and kills three women. The next morning, the Colonel discovers the bodies and tries to cover up the whole mess, as he does not want this to ruin his resort. However, the island's security head, Agent Manners who had survived Jack's maiming of him, suspects that Jack has returned.  Jack continues his rampage, killing a beach model and her cameraman. Sam begins to suspect that something is amiss when he runs into Manners, who agrees to an alliance in order to stop Jack Frost. Sam, Captain Fun (who is actually Manners' undercover assistant), and Manners stage a trap to capture Jack. This fails as the snowman they capture was really the Colonel in costume.  After slaying another beach model, Jack decides to freeze the place, causing it to snow. The party guests begin to play around and have a snowball fight when Jack enters the fray, killing at least another dozen. Sam, Anne, Marla, Manners, and Joe lock themselves up in a room, using antifreeze to keep Jack at bay.  Sam and Manners decide to find help, and end up finding a room where the Colonel, Captain Fun, and Bobby have barricaded themselves. They find more antifreeze and lure Jack into a pool of coolant. However, Jack has become much more resilient to the antifreeze due to his time in the lab. Jack spits out a snowball and flees, followed by Manners, into the woods.  Sam, Anne, and the others observe the snowball and it "hatches" and becomes a baby snowman, who kills Captain Fun. Meanwhile, Manners has followed Jack to a shed, where he finds dozens of snowball children which devour him.  The survivors attempt to trap as many of the snowmen as they can until the supply ships arrive. Eventually, Anne realizes that they can be killed by bananas, due to Sam being allergic to bananas. As a result, Jack would share the same vulnerabilities.  Jack watches a baby snowman die and becomes angry. He kills Bobby and the Colonel. Marla and Joe flee and lock themselves in the freezer with Captain Fun's body, while Anne is attacked by Jack. Sam shoots Jack with a banana attached to an arrow, causing him to explode. Anne and Sam embrace each other and leave the island.  During the credits, the two sailors on the supply boat are crushed by a giant carrot, implying that Jack is still alive. After the credits roll, we're shown that Joe and Marla were accidentally left in the freezer.