The film opens in a park at a child’s birthday party. Someone is attempting to light a firework for the kids’ amusement before the opening credits begin to roll.  All of the teenagers in Haley's hometown dress in their best clothing on what is said to be the most important day of their lives. With nervous excitement, they make a scattered pilgrimage across town, drawn to an unknown fate. Haley walks at a more reluctant pace, skeptical of the timeworn tradition and the bizarre coming-of-age ritual that awaits them at their destination. She vocalizes her concerns to her two friends, Trish and Gwen, who both laugh off her concerns and tell her to think about other things. One boy, while walking to Monty’s with his friends, suddenly has a suspected panic attack and lapses into muteness. His friends continue on to Monty’s without him after discussing what to do to help him.  When they finally arrive at Monty's, a local delicatessen, the clusters of teens join together in a surreal ceremony of food, dance, and romantic angst that will determine the course of their lives forever. Many of the teens are granted instantaneous escape from the clutches of suburbia while an unchosen few are left to dwell interminably in their vacant hometown.  Haley leaves Monty’s during the ritual and is later unable to get ahold of either Trish or Gwen, who were both selected during a partner ritual. She walks home sullenly, calls her friends multiple times to no avail, and has an awkward dinner with her parents.  The boy left by his friends is hospitalized with a broken leg after falling into a manhole, (supposedly trying to get to Monty’s). His clearly burdened, disappointed mother takes him out to dinner, then wheels him in a wheelchair to an abandoned warehouse, where she leaves him alone with a meager bag of supplies.   Three burnouts absentmindedly discuss their state of being while eating stolen Slim Jims in an empty parking lot. Then they listlessly ride hoverboards around before returning to the car, where they drive to a party attended by other people with similar situations. The adult guests of the party are presumably kids who were not selected during the ritual at Monty’s and are now living unsuccessful, unfulfilled lives. One of them is an aspiring guitarist who works at Monty’s, though he clearly hates his job. Realizing he’ll never be a musician and be stuck at Monty’s for good, he burns the strings of his guitar and then smashes it with his foot while his burnout buddies drive him home.  The next morning, Haley attempts getting a hold of her friends again, goes to their houses, but is still unable to reach them. She goes to the park, seen at the beginning of the film, and observes the people around her as the child’s party continues.  http://schedule.sbiff.org/films-events/511942527