Danny and Wheeler are salesmen promoting the energy drink "Minotaur", supposedly to keep kids off drugs. Wheeler loves the job, while Danny considers it pointless and dead-end, making him depressed and jaded. Danny's uncouth behavior results in the collapse of his relationship with Beth, who breaks up with him after an impulsive proposal.  After a botched presentation at a high school, Danny and Wheeler's Minotaur truck is towed from the no-parking zone. Danny tries to free the truck, almost hitting a security guard then crashing into a statue. They are arrested and charged.  Beth makes a deal with the judge: they must do 150 hours of community service over the next 30 days, in lieu of 30 days in jail. Their service is with Sturdy Wings, a big brother-big sister program led by Gayle Sweeny, a recovering addict. She warns them that if they fail to meet her requirements they will be sent to prison. Wheeler is given Ronnie Shields, a vulgar young boy who has driven away all the other "Bigs" he has been paired with. Danny is assigned Augie Farks, a shy teen obsessed with a medieval LARPG  called "LAIRE" (Live Action Interactive Role-playing Explorers).  Danny does not find common ground with Augie, while Ronnie dislikes Wheeler. Danny considers giving up and choosing jail, but Wheeler talks him out of it. Gradually bonding with their "littles"; Ronnie and Wheeler talk about having been abandoned by their fathers, while Danny learns about Augie's medieval fantasy realm. Ronnie hears about Wheeler's favorite band, Kiss, and discovers that Wheeler shares his obsession with breasts, which Wheeler teaches him to control. Danny and Augie bond discovering they are both involved in the Sturdy Wings program against their will. Danny joins Augie's LAIRE and tries to get back with Beth, who insists "it is for the best".  However, their good luck is short-lived. When Augie sneaks up on the King of LAIRE, Argotron, the King lies and tells everyone that he killed Augie. Defending Augie, Danny confronts and shoves the King, getting them banned from LAIRE permanently. Later, Danny insults Augie's mother and her boyfriend for not supporting Augie, earning their hatred. As they kick Danny out of the house, Danny retorts, "I'd be psyched if he was my kid." Meanwhile, Wheeler takes Ronnie to a party, but leaves him unsupervised, resulting in Ronnie walking home alone. When both kids' parents ask Sturdy Wings for new mentors, Gayle expels Danny and Wheeler from the program, resulting in both men failing to complete their community service. Although Beth agrees to defend Danny and Wheeler in court, she warns them that they will most likely go to jail.  Danny convinces King Argotron to allow him and Augie to fight in the battle royale. Wheeler gets permission from Karen to hang out with Ronnie after he gets out of jail, and Ronnie forgives him. However, the King secretly warns the other members of Augie's LAIRE "country" of Xanthia that allowing Augie to fight with them will lead to severe retribution in the game. They call Augie to tell him he is a liability and out of the group. Danny and Augie form a new LAIRE country by asking Wheeler and Ronnie to join them. They arrive with Wheeler's Kiss costumes and a Kiss-themed Minotaur truck, naming their country "Kiss-My-Anthia". Augie finally defeats the king, but Sarah, a hidden player who goes by Esplen in LAIRE, attacks and defeats Augie; crowned the new queen, she chooses Augie as her king-consort. Augie's parents forgive Danny.  Impressed that Wheeler and Danny care for the children, Gayle clears their names with the judge. Danny serenades Beth with a rendition of the Kiss song "Beth" and they reconcile.