After Rev. David Hill is released from prison (as seen in God's Not Dead 2), controversy is sparked against Dave's St. James Church, which is on college campus grounds. This causes the college to start the process of shutting down the church to replace it with a student center, much to the dismay of Dave and his friend Jude, who begin the process of suing the college to save St. James. Things get worse when college student Adam Richertson, reeling from his breakup from his skeptical girlfriend Keaton, tosses a brick into the church, igniting a fire that kills Jude and nearly destroys the church. Adam is horrified by his actions and contemplates whether to confess to the crime, leading him to reconnect with Keaton.  During the lawsuit against the school, Dave enlists the help of his estranged atheist brother, attorney Pearce Hill, who tries to explain to Dave that it is not a case worth fighting for. Dave refuses to listen to his brother's advice and continues the case into court. After failing to reach a settlement with the college, the trial date is set for the lawsuit. At the same time, Adam sends an anonymous text to Dave, confessing to the church fire, causing a furious Dave to assault him. This severely wounds his lawsuit's case and public opinion towards it, and leads to Adam being arrested and charged as a felony case. A frustrated Pearce leaves, feeling that Dave has gone too far, and that he does not think about what other people are going through, explaining how hurt he was after his family pushed him out for doubting his faith.  After seeking God's help in church through prayer, Dave eventually realizes that his case has only made things worse and that St. James is not the right church for God and his followers. He drops his lawsuit, reaches an out-of-court settlement with the college, and after talking with a repentant Adam and consulting with Jude's family, ultimately asks to have the criminal charges against Adam dropped. Dave then announces to his college protesters that while St. James will be torn down, he will reopen a new church not far from the school.  In a post credits scene, Newsboys member Michael Tait encourages the audience to text #Godsnotdead and share the gospel to everyone to keep the movement going.