In autumn 2006, scholarship student Oliver Quick from Prescot struggles to fit in at the University of Oxford because of his inexperience with upper-class manners. He befriends Felix Catton, an affluent and popular student who is empathetic to Oliver's stories of his parents' substance abuse and mental health issues. When Oliver becomes distraught over his father's sudden death, Felix comforts him and invites him to spend the summer at his family's country house, Saltburn.  At Saltburn, Oliver meets Felix's eccentric parents Sir James and Lady Elspeth, his sister Venetia, Elspeth's friend Pamela, and their American cousin Farleigh, with whom Oliver has had a tense relationship since meeting him at the university. He quickly wins over Felix's family and his obsession with Felix grows. One night, he watches Felix masturbating in a bathtub and lustfully drinks the semen-laced bathwater. He later seduces Venetia and performs oral sex on her while she is menstruating. Farleigh witnesses this and informs Felix. When Felix confronts Oliver about the accusation he claims nothing had happened. At night, Oliver initiates a sexual encounter with Farleigh, threatening him in the process to behave. Farleigh gives no enthusiastic consent. The next morning, James evicts Farleigh after receiving a report from Sotheby's about his intention to sell some of James's valuables.  As the summer ends, Elspeth and James plan a party for Oliver's birthday. Felix surprises Oliver with a trip to see his estranged mother, causing Oliver to panic. Upon arriving at the family's house in Prescot, Felix realizes that Oliver had lied to him about his upbringing. Oliver's father is still alive, neither of his parents are substance abusers, and they live in a respectable middle-class suburb. Horrified and hurt by Oliver's deception, Felix orders him to leave after the party. During the celebrations, Oliver seeks to make amends with Felix by expressing his adoration for him. Felix rejects him and suggests he seek help.  The next morning, Felix is found dead in Saltburn's hedge maze. Oliver implies Felix's death was connected to Farleigh's drug use, and James withdraws financial support to Farleigh and bans him from returning. Oliver mourns Felix and visits his grave, where he performs a solo sex act by grinding on the soil that Felix is buried under.  After Felix's funeral, Elspeth insists Oliver should extend his stay at Saltburn. Venetia accuses Oliver of disintegrating her family. He attempts to seduce her, but she rebuffs him, disturbed by his growing impersonation of Felix. The next day, Venetia is found dead, having slit her wrists in the bathtub. Despondent of Oliver's continuing presence at Saltburn and Elspeth's closeness to him, James bribes him to leave, which Oliver accepts.  In 2022, Oliver reads about James's death in a newspaper. He has a chance encounter with Elspeth at a café and she is delighted to see him again, insisting he return with her to Saltburn. After spending several months with Oliver, Elspeth becomes terminally ill. At her deathbed, Oliver confides in Elspeth that he is responsible for the tragic events at Saltburn. He had orchestrated his meeting Felix at Oxford by puncturing his bicycle tyre, and had murdered him by poisoning his drink after his rejection in the maze. He had placed razor blades near Venetia's bath after implying that she should commit suicide and fabricated the email from Sotheby's which resulted in Farleigh's expulsion from the estate. He planned his encounter with Elspeth at the café, after which she bequeathed all her assets, including Saltburn, to Oliver. Oliver forcibly removes Elspeth's ventilator, killing her. Having now assumed ownership of Saltburn and the Catton family fortune, he dances naked around the mansion to "Murder on the Dancefloor".