In the Peruvian jungle, 6-year-old Dora Márquez, daughter of jungle explorers Cole and Elena, goes on adventures with her monkey friend Boots, her 7-year-old cousin Diego, and imaginary friends Backpack and Map while thwarting Swiper the thieving fox. One day, Diego and his family leave for Los Angeles while Dora and her parents remain searching for the hidden Inca city of gold, Parapata.  Ten years later, Cole and Elena decipher the location of Parapata. They send a now 16-year-old Dora to stay with Diego's family in Los Angeles while they travel to the lost city. At Diego's high school, Dora meets fellow students Sammy and Randy. Sammy sees Dora as a rival due to her intelligence, while Randy develops a crush on her. Dora's eccentric behavior culminates in mocking and name-calling by some of her new classmates when she publicly dances to a conga song at the school dance. Embarrassed, Diego tells Dora that she is no longer in the jungle, which leads to a fallout between them.  On a class field trip to a museum, Dora, Diego, Sammy, and Randy are lured to its off-exhibit archives, where mercenaries led by a man named Powell capture them and fly them to Peru. When they land, a man named Alejandro, who claims to be a friend of Dora's parents, helps them escape. The mercenaries, aided by Swiper, steal Dora's map. Alejandro reports that Dora's parents have gone missing and the mercenaries are searching for them in hopes of getting into Parapata to steal its treasures. Dora resolves to find her parents first with Alejandro's help, and the other teens agree.  The group travels through quicksand, Inca ruin puzzles, hallucination-inducing spores that turn them into animated characters in the style of the original cartoon, and attacks from forest guards of Parapata. During the journey, Sammy warms up to Dora, who reconciles with Diego and notices her cousin has a crush on Sammy. Dora reaches her parents outside the borders of Parapata, but Alejandro, the true leader of the mercenaries, captures them. Boots helps the teens escape and restores Dora's confidence; she resolves to find the way inside Parapata so they can use its treasure to bargain for Elena and Cole's release.  Inside the hidden city, Dora and the others solve its temple's puzzles and dodge its traps, bringing them to the central shrine. Alejandro, having secretly followed them, arrives as the group reaches its final test. He thinks that the gold is the right answer against Dora's warnings and falls into a trap. The soldiers guarding Parapata, having apprehended Dora's parents and the mercenaries, confront the teens. Dora speaks to their queen in Quechua, assuring that the group only came to learn about the ancient civilization. Dora figures out the answer to the test, and the Incas allow her and everyone to have a single glimpse of their greatest treasure until Swiper appears and steals the smaller idol, thus angering the gods. As Alejandro and the mercenaries are taken away, Dora regains the idol and puts it back into place. After the group leaves, Diego and Sammy become a couple. Dora's parents and the teens arrive at her jungle home. Cole and Elena discuss going on another expedition as a family, but Dora decides to return to school in Los Angeles.  During the credits, Dora and her friends sing "We Did It" at the high school dance to celebrate their victory, Alejandro remains a prisoner in Parapata for another 1,000 years, and Cole and Elena stop Swiper from running away with their Incan artifact.