Three college-age girls, Holly, Cali, and Mel, become bored when they return home for the holidays. Cali convinces the others that they should go to her uncle's house, where they can party. Mel and Holly are hesitant at first, but ultimately agree to go with Cali.  As the girls drive to the house, Holly calls her boyfriend, Ben, and invites him to join them. Cali is annoyed by the suggestion, noting that she had intended a "girl's night out." The girls finally get to the house and have a good time, but this falls apart when Holly finds photographs showing that Cali is unrelated to the owners.  Holly confronts Cali, who admits that the house does not belong to her uncle, but to a friend and that they are not technically supposed to be there. Holly and Mel insist that they leave, but before they can, Arthur, the groundskeeper, arrives and surprises them.  Thinking that the girls are thieves, Arthur tries to apprehend them but falls down the stairs and appears to die. The girls panic and decide to fabricate a story to convince the police: Arthur entered the house and attacked Holly, but fell down the stairs in the process and broke his neck. They then take steps to falsify evidence: Cali tears out a lock of Holly's hair and Holly scratches herself with Arthur's fingernails. While falsifying evidence, Holly finds out that Arthur is not actually dead but is actually paralyzed from the neck down. Cali suggests that he will die soon and recommends that they wait for a while to ensure that he is really dead.  Holly's boyfriend, Ben, eventually arrives at the house and tries to enter, still thinking that it belongs to Holly's uncle. The girls drag Arthur into a living room, and Cali answers the door and accuses Ben of cheating, hoping that he will leave. Ben forces his way into the house and confronts Holly, nearly discovering Arthur. Meanwhile, Arthur uses his teeth to pull off a tablecloth, causing a tray holding glasses to fall to the ground and shatter. However, Ben does not hear the noise and leaves without discovering the girls' plot. Cali, enraged by Arthur's actions, decides that Arthur will not die anytime soon and declares that they will have to kill him themselves. Holly and Mel are resistant to Cali's idea and insist that they will turn themselves in to the police instead. Cali appears to agree and leaves, stating that she needs to find her phone so that she can call the police. After she leaves, Holly and Mel discover that Cali had left the phone in the same room and deduce that she had instead gone to kill Arthur.  Holly and Mel rush to the living room, only to discover that Cali has already smothered Arthur with a pillow and that he is finally dead. Holly attacks Cali, but Cali easily overpowers her and ties her up. Mel and Cali leave the room, and Cali proposes killing Holly and pinning the crime on Arthur. Mel agrees, but before they can kill Holly, they discover that she has cut herself loose using a piece of broken glass. Holly and Cali fight for a while, but Holly gains the upper hand and bludgeons Cali to death with a table leg.  Holly and Mel weigh their options and decide that it is best to stick with their original story but add that Arthur had first killed Cali before falling to his death. The film concludes with a scene of police officers photographing the scene of the crime and comforting Holly and Mel, whose story they apparently believe.