Federal agent Zack Reed and his partner Sanders are pursuing dangerous criminal leader Alexander Zogu who has discovered a copy of the FBI witness protection database. The file has been stored on a USB flash drive by a now-deceased kindergarten teacher.   After Sanders interviews the teacher's students and the staff, no one seems to know where the drive is. So Reed, with a fictitious resumé, applies for the role of teacher to the bereaved class and is easily hired.  The school has a very liberal/modern perspective on teaching and managing children which is, at first, quite awkward to Reed's more straightforward ways. On his first day, Reed struggles to keep the kids' attention and to keep it together. One boy has severe allergies, especially nuts, so mayhem breaks out when they realize that Reed is eating peanut butter. Again he loses control when he gives them chocolate cookies and they bounce off the walls from the sugar.  Although day one is rough, Reed insists he will persevere without Sanders' help. He uses an air horn to command obedience, but the principal gives him one strike. This motivates Reed to apologize and ask for some assistance from Sanders (father of five), Reed learns to lead the class in a more relational and emotionally-aware way.   Another teacher in kindergarten, Olivia, is an attractive single woman. When she catches him in her office snooping for the thumb drive, Reed asks her out on a date and they begin to connect romantically.  Reed and Olivia's classes compete in a capture the flag competition and his class win for the first time. As his students explain that the other kids' are larger, he gives them a trojan horse strategy.   The criminal leader, Zogu, captures the FBI surveillance van and discovers the crucial role of the children. In the meantime Reed reveals his cover to the principal, telling her about Zogu and the importance of locking down the school.   Zogu finds the thumb drive with the children on a field trip, but they manage to surprise him with their trojan horse attack strategy. The drive is returned to the FBI and the kids celebrate their victory with their parents.