In 2008, hedge fund manager Kevin Garner (Kristoffer Polaha) is fired following the collapse of Bear Stearns. Kevin goes to a bar, where he meets a woman named Molly (Elizabeth Tabish), who approaches him on a dare from her friends. The two hit it off and get married. Years later, Kevin and Molly are now estranged following the death of their son, Daniel. Molly has become an embittered alcoholic and Kevin is unhappy in his job, as he works for a much younger boss, Brendan. Brendan hates Kevin because his parents lost their home in the Subprime mortgage crisis. After learning he will be fired, Kevin leaves work and is in a car accident. Kevin is apparently pulled from the wreck by a mysterious stranger who identifies himself only as "The Benefactor" (Neal McDonough). The Benefactor tells Kevin that he has actually "shifted" him to another reality following the accident, and that they are in a parallel universe.   The Benefactor and Kevin go to a café, and Kevin sees that all the patrons inside are terrified of the Benefactor. After a tense conversation at the table, Kevin realizes that the Benefactor is actually Satan. The Benefactor offers Kevin anything he wants so long as he works as one of his "shifters", people who have sold their souls and use "shifting" to torment souls by transferring them to other realities. Kevin is skeptical and asks him to prove it, and the Benefactor "shifts" a waitress, Tina (Rose Reid), to an alternate reality where she never existed. After realizing this action will drive Tina insane, Kevin refuses the offer and prays to God for help. Enraged, the Benefactor abruptly vanishes, leaving Kevin trapped in the dystopian alternate universe. Horrified at what he just did, Kevin apologizes to Tina's family and leaves.  Five years later, Kevin is still in the totalitarian reality, living under an assumed name because he refused the Benefactor. Kevin attempts to replicate whatever Bible passages he remembers and distributes them through his friend Gabriel (Sean Astin), despite scripture being illegal. Kevin also shares the story of Job with his neighbor, Rajit, and his family. Kevin explains that this reality suffered from constant war until the Benefactor arrived and made a new world in his image. Because most of the planet is destroyed from war, the majority of people live in squalid, poverty-stricken cities ruled with an iron fist by the Benefactor's secret police. Kevin's only solace is going to a movie theater owned by Russo (John Billingsley), which plays a live feed from alternate realities.  In the theater, Kevin sees several versions of Molly, one of which is a single mother working as a nurse. Kevin plans to acquire the shifting technology from a "shifter", but their identities are secret. Kevin then learns that the Benefactor is returning to the reality for the first time in five years. He acquires an illegal firearm from Gabriel and attempts to force the Benefactor to take him back to his life. However, the plan fails and, after Kevin refuses another deal, the Benefactor disappears once again. The secret police shoot Rajit, wounding him severely, and kill Gabriel. Kevin realizes that Gabriel was secretly a shifter, and takes his device, shifting himself to another reality.  Kevin shifts to multiple universes, coming across Tina, who is unhinged and in a psych ward. After he is rejected by a version of Molly, the Benefactor returns Kevin to the totalitarian universe and he shifts Tina to the theater and tells him that he can choose to return Tina to her family and never see Molly again, or he can sell his soul to him and he can be with Molly forever. Kevin denies the Benefactor's offer and gives Tina her life back, and Kevin is suddenly shifted to another reality. In this reality, Molly is the nurse and single mother he saw previously. He strikes up a conversation similar to how they first met, and the two get married once again. Kevin states that this is not his universe, but it is his home. Kevin is then shown playing with his newborn son and his adopted daughter, proving that he was given double what he lost.