Robbie and Krissy are enjoying a date off the fictional Fells Island on Lake WinnipegWhen Dan’s colleague Dana is searching satellite images of “Fells Island” and the surrounding lake, the pin drop is near Hecla-Grindstone Provincial Park, an area including several islands in the southern half of Lake Winnipeg; approx 01h02m32s into the film in a small speedboat. While kissing, a huge tentacle slithers into their boat and wraps onto Krissy's leg. She panics, and Robbie falls overboard. More tentacles emerge and crush the boat, pulling it underwater and tearing Krissy apart. The next day, Krissy's older brother, Will Neepanak, stops to report her missing to Katrina “Kat” Tomas, the acting sheriff for Fells Island.  Later, Dan Leland arrives, having been sent from the National Oceanographic Research Agency (NORA) to investigate why fish catches are plummeting. Kat introduces him to Captain Gunner Thorson, Dan's escort, while he researches on the water, to Gunner's dismay. His crew, Jordy and Spider, blame the First Nations fishermen and are openly racist towards the Cree population and Kat, who is half Native. Dan boards Gunner's boat, the Freya, and they set out.  A family of tourists is walking along the beach. The father walks in the rear when a massive tentacle snatches him and pulls him under before his family notices he is gone. They report him missing. Night falls aboard the Freya, and Dan picks up something large on his radar that is not responding to their radio calls. They come upon the wreckage of the speedboat & Robbie, unconscious in a life preserver, pulling him aboard. Robbie is in the advanced stages of hypothermia but tells them of witnessing a monster kill Krissy with his dying breath. Dan pulls bits of the boat aboard and discovers massive toothed sucker marks on the pieces.  Kat is called to the morgue after Gunner returns with Robbie's body. At the morgue, Gunner, Spider, and Jordy try to cover up the attack by saying Robbie was incoherent and by stealing Dan's pieces of the wrecked speedboat, intent on selling them. Dan emails pictures he had taken of the sucker marks to a coworker, Dana Perch, for her opinion on them. Later, he and Kat are walking on the beach and come across the missing tourist's battered torso and another local, Old Salt, pulls up Krissy's leg. He turns it in, and Will is notified. Dan and Kat try to prohibit fishing temporarily while waiting on resources due to the deaths and possibility of a giant squid which angers much of the town. Dan's boss at NORA, Dr. Gorman, denies Dan's request for additional aid and calls his claims of a giant freshwater squid absurd, cutting his funding entirely. He tells Kat, who is devastated, and tries to persuade him to stay, revealing she had seen the beast when it killed her father years before; Dan is not convinced, saying he would need proof of the creature's existence in order to persuade NORA even though he believes her.  Later, the squid attacks Gunner and his wife Jen on the pier, but Gunner cuts the tentacle off and brings it to the bar as proof of the squid. That night, Gunner, Jordy, and Spider start prepping the boat to hunt the squid, refusing the help of Dan, Kat, Will, and his crew, Jack and Ryan. Dan warns them of the dangers, and they agree to work together. Dan and Kat board the Freya, and Will and his crew follow in the Wiiskachaan, planning on netting the squid between the two boats to disorient it after it loses buoyancy. After throwing buckets of chum overboard, the squid is lured to their location, then the Freya's engine dies. The squid attacks the live engine on Will's boat, sinking it and killing Will and his two men aboard, so they change plans to destroy the squid. While it attacks the ship, Kat, Jordy, and Spider fend off the tentacles, and Dan rigs some electrical wire to a harpoon while Gunner fixes the engine. Spider and Jordy are both pulled overboard by the squid and eaten. They finally get the engine running, and when the squid surfaces, they shoot the harpoon into its massive eye and turn on the boat's power, electrocuting it. The Freya heads for the harbor as the sun rises, and Dan and Kat talk about their future together.