On the surface of Mars, the Mars rover is destroyed by an unknown force. Astronomer George Herbert (Howell) and his wife Felicity (Van Wyk Loots) are packing for a trip to Washington, D.C. to celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary. George's son Alex spots a meteorite entering Earth's atmosphere. George is called to work about the incident, and his wife and son leave early for D.C. without him. As he drives to work, a meteorite lands. An alien "walker" emerges from the crater and massacres the witnesses with an energy weapon, George barely escaping with his life. George decides to meet with his brother Matt in Hopewell before moving on to Washington, D.C..  Despite rumors that D.C. has suffered some of the worst of the invasion thus far, George moves onward and meets with Sgt. Kerry Williams, the last remaining member of his squad. George and Williams meet with Samuelson, a power-mad lieutenant with unrealistic notions of resistance against the invaders, who rejects them as cowards. In Hopewell, the walkers launch a heavy insurrection and Matt dies in the trail of destruction. George and Williams are separated in the battle. A pastor, Victor, finds George and describes his belief that the invasion is a form of the Rapture, but remains optimistic. The two go on together towards D.C.. Victor's faith is bruised when a hysterical member of his church curses God for the death of her children. George and Victor witness the final effort of the military against the walkers, who defeat them with toxic gas.  The two seek refuge in the abandoned house of a veterinarian for food and medicine when the neighborhood is flattened by another meteorite, trapping them in the ruins. George observes the aliens harvesting humans while Victor becomes despondent, rejecting his faith. George finds rabies vaccines and plans to use it against the aliens. George successfully injects a curious alien, only for it to kill Victor and leave. Days later, the aliens vanish and George continues his journey on foot to D.C.. George reunites with Williams and a deranged Samuelson, who has given himself a battlefield promotion. Samuelson senselessly murders Williams, and George in turn murders Samuelson.  George finally reaches D.C., which is completely destroyed. George becomes suicidal until he finds that the aliens have all died, having no immunity to a human virus. George finds Felicity and Alex alive among the few human survivors.