Larry Guthrie (Larry the Cable Guy), a dreamer from a small town, is awarded the title of "Metro County Miracle." While on his way to a child's birthday party, Larry and his girlfriend Brooke (Erin Beute) stop at a raffle for a Camaro convertible. Larry puts his name in the raffle, against Brooke’s will, and wins the chance to get the car. In order to win, Larry has three chances to knock down two bowling pins on either side of the lane. On his third try, with both bowling pins left, he slips on nacho cheese sauce and successfully knocks down the pins with the bowling ball. Some time later, after Larry and Brooke end their relationship, Larry finds out that Brooke is engaged to the hot shot of the town, Beauregard "Bo" Billings (David Mackey). Bo Billings is a candidate for mayor of the town, which motivates Larry to attempt to win her back.  In order to win back Brooke's affection, Larry volunteers at the local after school program that Brooke runs. On his first day volunteering, he tells one of the children that the Tooth Fairy isn't real deeply upsetting the little boy Gabe, and making him doubt the realness of the Tooth Fairy. That night Larry is approached by a Tooth Fairy named Nyx and gets a head-to-toe pink fairy outfit, who tells him he is a substitute Tooth Fairy, and must collect ten teeth in ten days. Larry is given fairy dust to help him, and is told if he fails to collect ten teeth, his greatest memory will be taken away.  Larry awakens from what he thought was a dream, but soon finds out he was wrong. The following night, he turns into the Tooth Fairy and goes to collect his first tooth. He manages to collect it, with some difficulty but is very proud of his abilities. The next night he turns into the Tooth Fairy again. During this time, he is beginning to make improvements at the after school program, helping them raise money for new supplies. Brooke is starting to warm up to him, and tells him she is happy with what he has done. The couple go wedding cake testing where Larry, unlike Bo who shows up to get her away from Larry, remembers Brooke is allergic to strawberries and likes orange buttercream which impresses her. He then offers to go out and buy the supplies with the money they made, in hopes to impress Brooke further.  Shortly after Larry collects the supplies for the program, he turns into the Tooth Fairy and is forced to serve his duties. While he is collecting a tooth, Bo steals the supplies, in order to make Larry look bad. When Larry returns from collecting the tooth, he is shocked to find his car empty, and has to break the news to Brooke and the kids the next day.  Feeling discouraged, Larry decides to quit his job as the Tooth Fairy and lose what he thought was his greatest memory. When he finds out that winning the Metro County Miracle wasn't his greatest memory, he is confused. He decides to reclaim his role as the Tooth Fairy, with little time to spare. After successfully collecting the remainder of the teeth, and restoring the children's beliefs in the Tooth Fairy, Larry finds out that his greatest memory was, in fact, one shared with Brooke. Larry decides to tell Brooke this, and when she asks Bo for his greatest memory she is disappointed finding it’s not about her. She ends her engagement with Bo and rekindles her love with Larry. Bo confronts Larry at his trailer who vows payback but crashes into a table and gets amnesia powder dropped on him as Larry stars flying realizing Brooke loves him.  The film ends with Brooke and Larry married, living in a home together, expecting a child. Nyx appears asking Larry to fill in because the regional tooth fairy is sick which he accepts and flies off into the night to get the tooth.