Zach is an aspiring young artist living in San Pedro, California. He has put off his dreams of going to art school in order to work and help his older sister Jeanne, his disabled father, and his five-year-old nephew Cody, whom he cares for most of the time, as Jeanne spends her time partying. Working as a short-order cook to make ends meet, Zach uses his free time to paint, surf, and hang out with his on/off girlfriend Tori and his best friend Gabe.   When Gabe's older brother Shaun comes back home from Los Angeles for a few weeks, Zach and Shaun develop a close friendship as they go surfing together. Shaun, a published writer, encourages Zach to take control of his life and pursue his ambition of going to CalArts. One night after drinking, Shaun kisses Zach. However, Zach is not prepared to give in to his feelings immediately and struggles with whether or not he may be gay. After Zach breaks up with Tori, he goes to Shaun's house, where the two make out and spend the night together. Following this, Jeanne reveals she and her boyfriend Alan are heading to Portland for his job interview, forcing Zach to look after Cody. Zach is reluctant, but agrees. When Shaun invites him over, he tells him to bring Cody along and the three have a great time together. Zach and Shaun's relationship begins to blossom, while Shaun builds a strong bond with Cody.  Zach feels uncomfortable when both Gabe and Jeanne learn about his relationship with Shaun. Although Gabe is supportive, Jeanne reveals her homophobic opinions and tells Zach that she does not want Cody hanging around Shaun due to his sexuality. At a party later that night, Zach becomes conflicted and ends things with Shaun, reasoning that he is not like him. Shaun tells him that it is obvious what he wants and calls him a coward for being too afraid to deal with his feelings.  Shaun secretly submits Zach's art school application on his behalf. Zach gets a call from CalArts telling him that they have received Zach's portfolio and application. Meanwhile, Jeanne reveals that Alan got a job in Portland, and reveals her plan to move to Oregon with him permanently with Cody. Zach is accepted to CalArts and is made to decide between putting himself first and neglecting his own dreams for his family. Zach meets with Tori, who urges him to decide for himself whether he wants to go to CalArts or stay to take care of Cody. After staying overnight at Tori's to avoid facing Jeanne, Zach decides to move forward with his art career. He sees Shaun to apologize for ending things and confesses that he had been accepted into the school in the past, but put it off to look after his family after his mother died. Now determined to chase his dreams, he re-affirms his love for Shaun and the two reconcile, making plans to move in together near CalArts.  Zach then goes to see Jeanne who's preparing to leave with Alan. Zach walks up to her, hand in hand with Shaun, and issues Jeanne an ultimatum, saying if she wants to abandon Cody, he would have to accept that Cody would be living with him and Shaun. A fight break out; Zach reassures Jeanne that Cody will be in good hands with Shaun. She relents, accepting what is truly best for Cody, and leaves him in the care of Zach and Shaun as she goes off to Portland with Alan.   The film ends with Zach, Shaun and Cody happily playing on the beach together as a family.