At sunrise on September 11, 2001, four al-Qaeda members, Ziad Jarrah, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Nami, and Ahmed al-Haznawi pray in a Newark, New Jersey hotel, and drive to Newark International Airport to board United Airlines Flight 93, piloted by Captain Jason Dahl and First Officer LeRoy Homer Jr., bound for San Francisco. Among the passengers are Tom Burnett, Todd Beamer, Jeremy Glick,  Richard Guadagno, Louis J. Nacke II and Lauren Grandcolas. During boarding, Jarrah makes a final phone call to his girlfriend, and Mark Bingham, rushing to the aisle, is the last passenger to board, barely making the flight. Air traffic controllers lose contact with American Airlines Flight 11 which diverts toward New York City while United 93 is delayed due to heavy air traffic. ATCs realize Flight 11 has been hijacked after hearing suspicious transmissions. United 93 is cleared for take off and passes New York, Jarrah observing the twin towers of the World Trade Center. Shortly after, Flight 11 crashes into the Trade Centre's North Tower, and United Airlines Flight 175 is also hijacked and heads toward New York. ATCs watch in horror as United 175 crashes into the South Tower. They learn that American Airlines Flight 77 has also been hijacked.  As United 93 reaches its cruising altitude, and the passengers are served breakfast, Jarrah hesitates to give the sign to start the hijacking. An ACARS message is sent from Homer's wife, asking if he is all right. An ACARS warning notifies the pilots of the WTC attacks and to beware cockpit intrusion. After Nami urges Jarrah to attack, an impatient Haznawi prepares an artificial bomb in the lavatory. Ghamdi grabs flight attendant Deborah Welsh at knifepoint and passenger Mark Rothenberg is mortally wounded by Haznawi. As Haznawi and Nami force the passengers to the back of the plane, Ghamdi kills both pilots, but not in time to prevent them sending out a mayday call, and Welsh, as Jarrah takes the controls. Grandcolas (an emergency medical technician) tends to the dying Rothenberg as the hijackers jubilantly react to the text message indicating the success of the WTC attack. Nami berates Grandcolas and sends her back. Jarrah redirects the plane towards Washington, D.C., with the intention to crash the plane into the United States Capitol, as flight attendants Sandra Bradshaw and CeeCee Lyles find Rothenberg is dead. Bradshaw sees the hijackers moving the pilots and Welsh's bodies and the passengers overhear this.  Flight 77 crashes into the Pentagon, and FAA National Operations Manager Ben Sliney decides to shut down all U.S. air space and ground all flights. On United 93, passengers learn of the other attacks from family members via airphone. Realizing the hijackers are on a suicide mission, Burnett, Bingham, Beamer, Glick (a former judo champion), Guadagno, Nacke, Grandcolas, passengers William Cashman, Patrick Driscoll and Alan Beaven form a plan to retake the plane, with assistance from Bradshaw, Lyles and the flight staff, gathering weapons, and learn passenger Donald Greene is a licensed pilot and passenger Andrew Garcia is a former air traffic controller. As the group conspire, Haznawi and Nami anxiously realize they are losing control of the situation and Jarrah and Ghamdi get agitated, as they are twenty minutes away from D.C. and are unable to speed up. Passenger Christian Adams, attempting to counsel appeasement, is restrained by the passengers. The passengers pray and make final calls to loved ones.  After Beamer urges the group to take action, stating, "Let's Roll,", the passengers charge a stunned Haznawi, and tackle him. As Nami, Ghamdi and Jarrah panic, Haznawi is killed by Bingham bludgeoning his head with a fire extinguisher and Nacke declares the bomb a fake. Jarrah violently rocks the plane to disrupt the passenger revolt as Nami attempts to keep them at bay with a serving cart, Mace and a fire extinguisher, but the passengers persist and subdue Nami who is killed by Glick snapping his neck. Jarrah and Ghamdi are disheartened by the realization that they will never reach their target, as the passengers batter the cockpit door with the cart. Jarrah puts the aircraft into a steep dive, just as the passengers break the door and storm the cockpit. Ghamdi tries to protect Jarrah, but the passengers overpower him and wrestle Jarrah for control. United 93 inverts and plummets into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing all aboard.