Captain Frank Tate leads a four-member SWAT team consisting of Tony Hunt, Jannard and Blanco. They manage to stop the robbery of a grocery store and save the hostages, but their reckless methods cause substantial property damage and emotional distress to the owner. Their superior gets angry and orders them to go through retraining, which they do not take seriously.  Ilya Kalashnikova and Demetrius, two Russian mobsters, bring a captive named Kenny to a warehouse outside the city. They demand Kenny recovers the "item" he has hidden there. Two members of the Italian mafia, Lampone and Storato, enter the same facility and start searching on their own. The two parties run into each other. Tate's team arrives on the same premises, and begins training with blank cartridges, not knowing about the events that just transpired.  Both criminal parties hide from the SWAT team, but tension rises between them. Blanco goes to check on the resulting noise, and is fatally shot, which alerts his colleagues. The Russians and the Italians realize that their law enforcement counterparts do not have real bullets, and form a fragile alliance to eliminate them. The SWAT team retreats to the upper level, locking the door behind them.  It is revealed that Demetrius stole the item from Lampone, before Kenny stole it from the former. Kenny reveals that the item is hidden somewhere beyond the locked door. Demetrius calls for backup. Tate and his squad realize that they must return to their truck to retrieve actual ammunition and call in police reinforcements. Kalashnikova and Storato bring the truck inside the warehouse. More members of the Russian mob, headed by a man named Vladimir, arrive. Vladimir decides to attack the upper floor through outside windows. Lampone secretly tells Storato that he has called his own operatives in order to secure the item for themselves.  Tate manages to reach the truck but finds the radio damaged. Hunt and Jannard fight off Vladimir's men. Jannard is nearly overpowered by Vladimir, before Tate returns and kills him. The mafia's reinforcements, led by tough guy Tagliaferro, show up and find another point of entry on the building's roof.  Tate decides to free Kenny, who gives him the briefcase containing the item. Kenny shows the SWAT team a hidden tunnel leading outside the hangar. Tate hides the item, before the group gets split. Tagliaferro knocks Tate unconscious, and hands him back to Kalashnikova and Demetrius. The others are captured by Storato and taken to another warehouse at the opposite end of the tunnel, where Lampone awaits. Lampone shoots Kenny, apparently killing him, and threatens to do the same to Jannard. Hunt agrees to go fetch the item in exchange for her safety, under escort from Storato. But he manages to kill Storato, neutralize Lampone and free Jannard.  Tagliaferro and his men return to Demetrius, Kalashnikova and Tate with orders to eliminate all three, but they escape in the truck and meet up with Hunt and Jannard at the other hangar. Tagliaferro catches up to them, and a final confrontation ensues. Tate kills Tagliaferro while Demetrius, Kalashnikova and Lampone are arrested.  Tate, Hunt and Jannard are congratulated by their superior. Kenny is revealed to be alive and an undercover FBI agent. He implies that Lampone is another undercover agent. The team is ordered to remain silent about the events.