In Sarajevo, 1992, Ajla Ekmečić is an ethnic Bosniak artist and lives with her sister who is a single mother of a baby boy. One evening, she meets her boyfriend, ethnic Serb police officer Danijel Vukojević, at a club. They enjoy the evening together, but many of the patrons are killed and Danijel is badly injured when the club is destroyed by artillery fire, signifying the opening salvo of the Bosnian War.  Some months later, Ajla and her sister Lejla prepare to flee the now besieged city, but their neighborhood is occupied by the Army of Republika Srpska before they can escape. The men are separated from the women, and then taken away to be executed, while Ajla and several other younger, more attractive women are taken away on buses to a Serb rape camp.  In the camp, the soldiers instruct the women on what life will be like and then ask the women what sort of duties they can perform. A doctor named Esma volunteers to perform medical services. Another woman says she can sew; rather than use her skills, an officer rapes her in front of the other women to demoralize them. Before another soldier can do the same to Ajla, the camp's commander takes her away, where it is revealed he is none other than Danijel.  The former couple struggle to grasp the magnitude of their predicament, especially given that inter-ethnic relationships are forbidden, and any evidence of such a relationship could compromise both Danijel and his father Nebojša, a General of the VRS Main Staff. Danijel tells Ajla that to shelter her from sexual abuse at the hands of the other soldiers, he has said that she is his "personal property." They begin an intense love affair, but Ajla is deeply disturbed by the horrors of the camp, and she subsequently makes numerous attempts to escape, all of which fail. The escape attempts greatly anger Danijel and compound his paranoia; he frequently lashes out at her.  Danijel's unit is involved in ethnic cleansing massacres directed by Nebojša, although these tactics do little to change the situation at the front line. A frustrated Nebojša learns of Ajla's existence and the special treatment she receives; he chastises his son for being affectionate towards "the enemy." Danijel remains coy, insisting he is doing his patriotic duty. Fearing the repercussions if their relationship is exposed, he allows Ajla to escape.  Ajla shelters herself in the forest outside the city, where she is found by Bosniak guerrilla forces, who take her back to their camp. In the camp, she happily reunites with Lejla, though this happiness is short-lived when Lejla informs her that her baby died some months earlier, sending her into inconsolable grief. Over a campfire, the guerrillas lament the paradoxical insanity of the war, one in particular pointing out that he feels he hates Serbs, yet his own mother is a Serb. Lejla blames Danijel, who has gained notoriety for his prominence in the siege amongst the anti-Serb forces. At this moment, Ajla informs the camp she was his prisoner, and the guerrillas concoct a plan for her to return to the camp and act as a mole.  Ajla returns to the camp claiming it's the safest place for her, leading a confused but grateful Danijel to rekindle their relationship. Shortly after her return, a soldier in the camp, Darko, is killed by an improvised explosive device, orphaning his infant child. Nebojša, learning of her return, immediately suspects her involvement. While Danijel is at the front line, Nebojša visits Ajla and orders her to paint a portrait of him. While she paints, he criticizes the "Muslim decadence" of such a career, which contrasts starkly with his own mother, a lifelong farm labourer widowed during World War II. Ajla counters that her grandfather was a Partisan, and that he taught her as a child that the constituent peoples of Yugoslavia are all equal irrespective of ethnicity. Nebojša smirks at her observation then leaves her alone with a soldier, Petar, who violently rapes her.  Danijel returns from the front line to find a distraught Ajla crying in the shower. Believing that she has cheated on him, he assaults her, but then sees his father's unfinished portrait and knows what has transpired. Danijel lures Petar to a hill above the city, then kills him. He then confronts his father, who attacks him and berates him for disgracing the family, saying "your mother would turn over in her grave if she knew you liked to fuck Muslim whores."  A sense of normalcy descends on Ajla and Danijel up until the events at Srebrenica. As NATO forces prepare to launch an offensive against the Serbs, Nebojša convenes a meeting with other commanders at a church. Danijel narrowly avoids being killed alongside his father when a massive explosion destroys the church (whether or not Ajla had a role in the attack is left ambiguous).  In conjunction with the bombing, ARBiH forces simultaneously launch a counter-offensive. Danijel hastily organizes his troops to halt their advance, but the Serb forces are decimated and most of his men are killed. Danijel returns to the now abandoned camp and finds Ajla patiently waiting. Believing she helped orchestrate the attack, he beats her, then shoots and kills her.  Danijel wanders through the wreckage of the city, which is now near liberation. Perhaps realizing what the war has driven him to become, and that it was all for nothing, he breaks down in tears on the street. UNPROFOR personnel arrest him shortly afterwards.