Tara Adams is a shy, awkward teenager who attends Lincoln Bay High and secretly operates as Seattle's most popular radio DJ, "Radio Rebel", unbeknownst to her friends Audrey, Larry, and Barry. Tara's crush Gavin and his friend Gabe make up a band called The G's, and hope to perform at prom.  Tara's stepfather Rob, who runs the radio station  SlamFM, asks Tara about Radio Rebel in an attempt to bonding with her. Tara's identity as Radio Rebel is subsequently revealed to him and her mother Delilah. When Rob invites her to host her podcast at SlamFM. Tara has doubts about her job at SlamFM, but is inspired by another radio host, DJ Cami Q, whom she befriends. Audrey and Tara's friendship becomes strained as Tara has to continually decline invitations to hang out; Tara eventually reveals her identity to Audrey.  Gavin leaves a copy of his band's demos in the drama room, which Tara takes and plays on her next show, encouraging the student body to start spontaneously dancing to release any pent-up emotions. However, Principal Moreno threatens to expel anyone caught listening to Radio Rebel. Cami Q shows up at school with a recording of Radio Rebel stating that she is taking back the music that Moreno took away, resulting in Moreno expelling students that withhold information regarding Rebel's identity. Eventually, Radio Rebel is nominated for Prom Queen; Tara refuses to accept the crown, wanting to preserve her anonymity.  When Tara does not reveal herself to Moreno, Moreno cancels the prom, sparking protests occurring outside of SlamFM. With Cami's help, Tara and Audrey sneak inside and persuade listeners to express their true feelings. After a montage of hateful reviews, the next day, Tara announces her plans to hold a "Morp" (prom spelled backwards) in retaliation of the prom's cancellation. Tara's rival Stacy begins to suspect that Tara is Radio Rebel, and holds a house party at the same time as Radio Rebel's next podcast. Tara attends while Delilah and Cami hold the podcast using voice recordings. Stacy's personal assistant Kim manages to infiltrate SlamFM and obtain evidence that Tara is Radio Rebel.  At school, Gavin quits The G's, fed up with Gabe's superficial and egotistical personality. Stacy locks Tara in the janitor's closet and threatens to release Kim's recording to the school. Tara agrees to sponsor Stacy's campaign in exchange for her secret being kept. Gavin finds out about this and rebuffs Stacy's invitation to the Morp.  On the day of the Morp, Moreno keeps an eye out for Radio Rebel as Cami announces the  prom queen. When Radio Rebel is granted the title, Tara overcomes her fears and reveals herself as Radio Rebel. When Moreno announces she is expelling Tara, more students come forward and declare that they are also Radio Rebel. Unable to expel the entire student body for supporting Tara, Moreno reluctantly storms off in defeat. Tara hands Stacy the crown, leading them to end their rivalry. Gavin performs a song dedicated to Tara before dancing with her.