In 1904 in London, Wendy Darling tells her younger brothers, John and Michael, stories of Captain Hook and his pirates. Peter Pan overhears her from outside their nursery window. Dissatisfied with Wendy's stories, Aunt Millicent advises the Darlings to think of Wendy's future prospects. One night, Wendy sees Peter return to the nursery to watch her sleep, but his shadow is bitten off by the family's nurse dog, Nana. At school, Wendy's teacher discovers her drawing a picture of Peter. Wendy tries to stop a disciplinary letter from reaching her father, only to publicly embarrass him when Nana chases her into the bank where he works.  In search of his shadow, Peter befriends Wendy, who sews it back onto him. He invites Wendy and her brothers to Neverland so she can tell her stories to his gang of Lost Boys. Using Tinker Bell's fairy dust, the four fly there, and Nana alerts Mr. and Mrs. Darling of what has happened. In Neverland, Captain Hook and his pirate crew soon attack the children. Jealous of Peter's affection for Wendy, Tinker Bell tricks the Lost Boys into shooting Wendy out of the sky, as they mistake her for a bird. Wendy survives, saved by an acorn Peter has given her earlier. Peter banishes Tinker Bell and ends their friendship.  Wendy agrees to the Lost Boys' request for her to be their "mother", and Peter takes the role of their father. Meanwhile, John and Michael encounter Tiger Lily, a Native American princess, before Hook and his crew capture the three at the Black Castle. Peter, Wendy, and the Lost Boys rescue them, as Hook is chased by a crocodile who has followed him for years. After a celebration at the Native American camp, Peter shows Wendy the fairies' home, and the two share a romantic dance. Hook spies on them and convinces Tinker Bell that Peter will eventually choose to leave Neverland for Wendy. When Wendy asks Peter to express his feelings, he angrily demands she return home, however, refusing to believe that he can ever feel love without having to grow up, which he fears. Peter flies off, returns to the Darling nursery and unsuccessfully tries to shut the open window, determined to keep Wendy in Neverland.  Wendy urges her brothers to return home with her, as they are starting to forget their parents. The Lost Boys eventually decide to join them, to Peter's dismay. Wendy says goodbye to Peter, leaving him a cup of medicine to drink. When Wendy leaves the hideout, she and the boys are captured by Hook's crew, who enter to poison Peter's medicine. Tinker Bell saves Peter by drinking the poison herself. Devastated, Peter proclaims his belief in fairies and telepathically reaches out to everyone at Neverland and London to join his repeated chant. This revives Tinker Bell, who helps Peter rescue Wendy and free the Lost Boys.   During the ensuing fight with the pirates, Hook forcefully takes Tinker Bell's fairly dust to grant himself flying abilities. In a duel, Hook taunts Peter about Wendy abandoning him to grow up and marry another man. Weakened, Peter falls and is incapacitated. Hook allows Wendy to say goodbye to Peter as Hook prepares to kill him. Finally professing her love for Peter, Wendy kisses him, which rekindles his happiness. Buoyant once more, Peter defeats Hook, who is swallowed up by the crocodile.   Covering the Jolly Roger in fairy dust, Peter flies Wendy and the boys back to London where they are reunited with their parents, who adopt the Lost Boys. Slightly, who got lost on the way to London and arrives at the house late, is adopted by Aunt Millicent while Mr. Darling reconciles with his children. Peter promises Wendy he will never forget her and will one day return to visit her, before returning to Neverland with Tinker Bell. Although Wendy never does see Peter again, she continues to tell his story to her own children, who pass it down for generations.