Dr. Peter Newmans is a 30-year-old sex therapist who has written a best selling book about how sex can be a distraction from success. However, his friends and family question why he has never had a romantic relationship and is completely uninterested in sexual desires. In recent years, Peter has developed a close relationship with his neighbor, Michelle.  When Michelle breaks up with her workaholic boyfriend, Peter comforts her and Michelle kisses him. Peter panics and begins to suffer from a migraine, a problem he has been experiencing with increasing frequency.    The next morning he plays basketball with his friends; he is hit in the groin and falls unconscious. During his examination, the hospital staff poke fun at Peter's under-developed testicles. However, medical imaging tests confirm he has a long-term benign brain tumor pressed against his pituitary gland. This caused him never to experience puberty.  Elated to learn he can possibly fix the issue, Peter insists that a procedure be undertaken immediately to remove the tumor. After a successful excision, he stays with his parents to recover. Peter becomes frustrated as time passes with no changes; his friends hire a stripper to arouse him but this also has no effect. Peter does finally obtain an erection, and begins to experience the side-effects of puberty.   Peter experiences excessive libido, mood swings, voice changes, and severe acne. After Michelle leaves for a cooking retreat, his symptoms become progressively more severe. During a FaceTime call with her, he lashes out because of his unfamiliar feelings of jealousy. He confides in his teenage neighbor, who suggests he engage in casual sex. Peter begins using Tinder and has sex with many different women.  When Michelle returns, she accepts a date with Peter. However, Peter acts rude and conceited, causing Michelle to become upset. Having ostracized his friends and now Michelle, Peter becomes depressed. When he tries to receive oral sex from one of his patients, he is caught by his boss and subsequently fired. Forced to come to terms with his situation, and has a heart-to-heart with his father.   Reflecting on his book, Peter concludes that a person should have all the consensual adult sex possible, and society should cease to sex-shame individuals. Peter apologizes to his friends and eventually to Michelle. They enter into a relationship and she becomes pregnant with his child. Peter writes a book for teenage boys about how to become proper men, and he and Michelle live happily ever after.