Almost 30-something Sloane Benson hates the holidays due to the judgement she receives from her family for being single. Having recently broken up with her boyfriend, her mother Elaine is constantly trying to set her up with a new man, much to Sloane's annoyance.   At Sloane's family's Christmas dinner, her younger brother York gets engaged to Liz, his girlfrind of three months, so Sloane is now the only single person left in the family. Meanwhile, Jackson, an Australian golfer, is stuck spending the holidays with a woman he has no interest in and her parents. His date becomes angry with him for not getting her a Christmas present although they'd agreed not to exchange gifts, so he leaves in frustration.  After Christmas, Sloane and Jackson have a chance encounter when both are returning presents they received. Jackson suggests to avoid bad holiday dates by dating only on holidays. Though initially reluctant, she decides to take him up on his offer and they end up spending New Year's Eve together, but have no further contact.   However, on Valentine's Day, both have another chance encounter where Jackson pretends to be her boyfriend in front of her ex and his young and beautiful girlfriend. They slowly become friends after spending various holidays together.  After Sloane and Jackson become closer when he loses a finger on July 4th, he fears he is not good enough for her. So, he tries to set her up with a better date. This leads to a fight at her brother‘s wedding, where his and her dates hook up.   While at a Halloween costume party together, Sloane becomes unwell after unknowingly swallowing laxatives. Jackson takes care of her until they end up falling asleep together. They then have sex the morning after, then Sloane's married sister arrives freaking out about kissing somebody else. Sloane uses it as an excuse to shove Jackson out, much to his dismay.  At Thanksgiving, they fight after Jackson opens up to Sloane and tells her how he feels about them. In the store when Sloane says "Ryan Gosling would never do his own shopping" there is a blurred customer in the background who looks like the actor. Both break off contact afterwards.   In the days leading to Christmas, Sloane visits Jackson's place but loses her nerve, still unable to speak to him. When shopping at the mall, they have another chance encounter. In front of hundreds of people, she finally confesses her love for Jackson and the two embrace.   The end credits reveal that all of the couples are still together. With Sloane and Jackson travelling to Australia for the holidays, Aunt Susan being engaged to Farooq, Wally and Sloane’s mother dating, just like Neil and Carly (Jackson's date from the beginning of the film).