On his first day in Tel Aviv, Michael arrives at the apartment he is to sublet only to find it still inhabited by Tomer, who had mixed up the date Michael was to arrive. Learning that Tomer's bike was stolen and he has nowhere else in the city to stay, Michael offers for Tomer to stay in the apartment with him in exchange for showing him around the city. After a short, somewhat strained video call with his husband, David, Michael goes to sleep. On his second day while visiting the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, Michael receives a call from an IVF clinic and learns that David has moved forward with plans to have a child via a surrogate mother without Michael's knowledge.  Over lunch, Michael and Tomer discuss Michael's debut book, Complications, in which he writes about his life in New York City during the AIDS crisis, documenting the death of his then-boyfriend from the disease. Tomer seems to consider AIDS too "depressing" to write or think about, which bewilders Michael. Michael also meets Tomer's friend Daria, who tells Michael she is frustrated with her life as an artist in Israel and plans to move to Berlin with her boyfriend, hoping for an easier time. Michael tells the two that when his generation was frustrated with the state of their lives they protested and tried to effect real change, but Daria says that living only for herself is her form of protest. On the third day Michael and Tomer meet at Frishman Beach, Tomer having found a copy of Michael's book on his way there.  They run into Guy, an informal sexual and romantic partner of Tomer's. Michael asks about him, and Tomer says that Guy wants a more formal relationship but Tomer's philosophy is to "enjoy everything life has to offer" and never to enter any formal relationships. Michael sees a toddler walk and fall into the water and runs to pick him up, but when he does the boy's mother becomes angry with him. That night, David apologizes to Michael for going behind his back but expresses excitement at the surrogacy process moving forward. Michael tells him they should just let the prospect of having a child go before leaving the call to attend a dance performance put on by Daria, a Jewish Israeli and her Palestinian boyfriend. In their performance, the two push each other apart violently before ultimately embracing.  That evening, Tomer browses Atraf for potential casual sex partners. Michael expresses interest in one profile, and Tomer asks if he should invite the man over. Michael considers it and ultimately declines, but Tomer invites him anyway. The man, Kobi, arrives, and after brief conversation Kobi and Tomer begin to have sex as Michael watches. After a few minutes, Michael leaves the room and goes to sleep.  On the morning of the fourth day, Tomer wakes to find Michael boarding a taxi to leave. Tomer stops him and convinces him to stay, inviting Michael to dinner with his mother on the Kibbutz that she lives on. At dinner, Michael learns that Tomer's mother raised him as a single mother, having used a sperm bank to get pregnant. Tomer's mother asks Michael if he ever wanted to have children, telling him that her only regret is not having more children. Michael tells her that he and his husband had recently tried to have a child via IVF, but that the baby died during birth, revealing that the process that David started would actually be their second attempt at having a child. Tomer and his mother urge Michael that it's not too late to try again, and before they leave Michael watches pensively as Tomer and his mother interact.  That night, as Michael is packing to leave, he organizes Tomer's chaotic wardrobe for him. He explains to Tomer the way he has organized it and instructs him in the proper way to fold clothes, and the two sit to match Tomer's socks with each other. When they complete, each is left with one unpaired sock. Using the two unmatched socks as sock puppets, they mime the two dissimilar socks - one a traditional business sock and one a black sock decorated with white stars, deciding to pair up with each other. Still wearing the socks on their hands, the two have sex and fall asleep together.  The next morning the two share a meal in the airport before Michael leaves. As the two observe a mother and son sitting nearby, Tomer tells Michael he thinks Michael would be a good father and that he should try again to have a child. On the flight home, Michael leaves a voice message for David, suggesting they have dinner at a park that they used to go to when they were younger. The film closes as Tomer recovers his stolen bike and rides through the city.