23-year-old Patricia Dombrowski works as a bartender and lives with her alcoholic mom Barb and ailing grandmother in small-town New Jersey. Patti, an aspiring rapper, dreams of getting signed by Oz, a local rap star. Danny, a small-time drug dealer, hands her a flyer for an upcoming rap show that he and his friends will perform at. At the rap show, Patti and her friend Jheri watch a solo performer, Basterd The Antichrist, perform a hard rock song as he gets booed offstage. Jheri pays for a recording session in Newark but Patti has a bad trip and walks out on the session. Patti takes a second job as a caterer to pay for Nana's medical treatment. Barb, who sang for a rock band in the 1980s, plays her demo track "Tough Love" for Patti and explains she could've been famous if she didn't get pregnant with Patti. When Patti shares her own dreams of fame in the music industry, Barb dismisses rap as "not real music".   While visiting her dad's grave with her grandmother, Patti spots Basterd going through a tunnel known as the Gates of Hell. Patti comes across Basterd's secret spot where he records music and beats and she calls Jheri to meet her there. Basterd is about to kick them out with they mock his rundown living space but Patti and Jheri plead with Basterd to let them record something. With Nana's vocal samples, they record "PBNJ", referring to their initials (Patti, Basterd, Nana, Jheri) as well as their home state of New Jersey. At a catering gig, Patti meets a radio host named DJ French Tips, whom Patti is a fan of. She gives French Tips her demo CD to listen to. Patti and Basterd start a romantic relationship.  Patti is called to cater at a professional event, which happens to be held at Oz's mansion. Unprompted, Patti does a surprise rap for Oz, who dismisses her appearance and calls her a "culture vulture". PBNJ's first performance is at a strip club, but Oz's criticism shakes Patti and she leaves after performing one song. Patti is fired from the catering job and she quits her bartending job. Nana passes away and Patti quits her rapping career.  Patti gets a call from DJ French Tips, calling to tell Patti she liked what she heard from the demo CD. She tells Patti that she submitted her name for a rookie rap competition in Newark. Patti thanks French Tips, and she reconciles with Basterd and Jheri. Patti, Jheri, and Basterd go to Newark for the show, which Oz is attending. Patti performs as Barb walks in to watch her perform. To Barb's surprise, Patti's song samples "Tough Love", and Patti invites Barb to personally sing the chorus. The two embrace as the crowd cheers. Another rapper wins the competition, and Patti cheers him and the other contestants on. After the show, Patti meets with Jheri and Basterd and they listen to the radio. DJ French Tips announces their song "PBNJ" as one of the requested songs. The three cheer and embrace each other as their song plays over the radio.