In 1987, Adele Wheeler is a depressed single mother who lives in a rural home with her 13-year-old son, Henry. While they are shopping, a man approaches Henry and makes them take him home to look after him. The man is revealed to be Frank Chambers, an escaped convict wanted by police.  Through flashbacks, it is revealed that Frank is a Vietnam War veteran who married his pregnant girlfriend, Mandy Chambers. A year after the baby's birth, they had a fight, in which he asked if he was the father. He pushed her against a radiator, resulting in her death. Simultaneously, through imagery, it is implied that the baby drowned. Frank was put in prison for murder.  Adele tells Frank that she had a number of miscarriages after Henry (shown in flashbacks), culminating with the full-term stillbirth of a baby girl. This has left Adele with severe anxiety and depression, which Henry's father later explains to Henry as the reasons their marriage failed.  Frank shows his gratitude to Adele for harboring him by repairing damaged parts of the house and performing assorted household chores. In return, she shows Frank how to dance. Frank instructs Henry on how to repair cars and to play baseball. He also shows Adele and Henry how to bake a peach pie.  Adele and Frank fall in love and plan to escape to Canada with Henry, packing the car and cleaning out the house. Meanwhile, Henry develops a friendship with an intelligent and rebellious girl his age named Eleanor, and goes to see her one more time before they leave. She manipulates him into thinking Adele and Frank are going to abandon him and he accidentally reveals Frank's past. Adele assures Henry she would never leave him.  The morning they are going to leave, Henry takes a note to his father's house and leaves it in his mailbox. While he is walking home, a policeman offers to drive him home, and Henry accepts. The policeman is suspicious of the packed car and nearly-empty house, but eventually leaves. Adele goes to the bank to get all the money out of her account, prompting suspicion from the bank staff. While Adele is gone, her neighbor Evelyn comes over and is surprised to find Frank. Frank insists he is just a handyman, but Evelyn is wary of his presence.  Henry's father finds the note that Henry left, and calls the house. Before Adele, Frank, and Henry can escape, they hear police sirens approaching. Frank ties Henry and Adele up before he goes out to surrender, so that they won't be charged with harboring a fugitive. It is not revealed who called the police to report Frank's presence at the house. Adele wants to plead in Frank's case but is warned by the prosecutor himself that if she does, Henry might be taken away from her. She writes letters to Frank, but he returns them all unopened in order to protect her.  Years later, adult Henry has become the successful owner of a pie shop and is contacted by Frank, who has seen Henry and his shop in a magazine. He tells Henry he will be released soon and asks him whether or not he should see his mother again. Henry lets Frank know that his mother is still single and lives in the same house. Frank returns to Adele and they embrace. The couple are shown spending the autumn years of their lives together, and Henry takes solace in the fact that he does not need to worry about his mother being alone.