Six high school seniors head out to a secluded lake for a last day together. The group consists of Johnny, Kitty, her friend Deb, Zeke, Kitty's boyfriend Matt, and Simon, Matt's brother. While at the lake, Johnny meets up with Mr. Parks, a friend of his grandfather, who warns him to be careful while in the lake. Although Johnny assures him that he will show respect, he fails to convince the others as they cause disturbances while in the boat.  Eventually, they begin to feel an unknown object touching them underwater. They attempt to row back to shore but lose an oar in the water. As Deb reaches out to retrieve it, a giant fish bites her, causing her to bleed to death. The group frantically tries to row to shore with one oar but the giant fish bites and destroys their remaining oar. In desperation, they throw Deb's body overboard to distract the fish, but this fails, leaving the group stranded on the lake.  Kitty accuses Johnny of knowing about the fish because he tried earlier to give her a necklace for protection. After Zeke attempts to persuade the group to throw Johnny overboard, he jumps overboard and disappears with the fish following him. Hysterical and desperate, Zeke is thrown overboard by an enraged Matt after accusing Kitty of sleeping with both brothers. He is soon eaten alive by the fish with his GoPro recording the ordeal. Johnny, having made it to shore, sets off in a motor boat to rescue the group. He attempts to tie a rope to tow the boat to safety, but the fish bumps the boat causing it to spin with the rope tying around Johnny's neck. Kitty tries to cut the rope, but he dies.  Kitty, Matt and Simon throw Johnny's body into the water as a distraction, but surprisingly, the fish refuses to eat him. The trio argue about Zeke's earlier insinuations regarding Kitty, and Matt angrily throws her into the lake. Kitty is denied entry on the boat, and she swims off. In a fit of madness, the brothers fight, and both end up falling into the water. Simon suffers a head injury, leaving drops of blood that attracts the fish. Matt tries to help his brother, but is kicked by Simon into the fishes path and is eaten while Simon swims to shore.  Meanwhile, Kitty observes Johnny's body floating nearby as she sits on the overturned motorboat. She takes the necklace off him and the fish immediately attacks Johnny's corpse. Believing the necklace will protect her, Kitty manages to swim back to the shore. However, she is confronted by a psychotic Simon, who drowns her in the shallows despite her pleas.  As night descends, the bloodied Simon is met by Mr. Parks. Inquiring about Johnny, Simon replies that everyone is dead. Mr. Parks, stating how Johnny was always kind to him, demands that Simon go back in the lake. When Simon refuses, he is shocked to see Mr. Parks holding a gun as well as Zeke's GoPro and realizes that he knows what happened. He shoots at Simon several times until he goes back into the water. Simon tries to escape but is dragged underwater and devoured by the fish. Johnny's tooth necklace is seen washing ashore on the lake bed, covered with blood.