Helen Simmons-McCarter and her attorney husband Charles McCarter have money, success, and a fine home. Despite seemingly perfect lives, Charles is actually distant, verbally and physically abusive, and has been having multiple affairs, while Helen is unemployed, bored at home, and desperately trying to make her marriage work. On the evening of their 18th wedding anniversary, Helen arrives home to find all her belongings in a U-Haul, and that Charles is abandoning her for his young mistress Brenda, the mother of his two sons.  Helen kicks the driver Orlando out of the truck and visits her intimidating grandmother Madea. Madea takes Helen in and helps her get back on her feet, upsetting Madea's brother Joe. Joe's attorney son Brian defends Madea and Helen after Charles and Brenda catch the pair breaking into and vandalizing the marital home. Judge Mablean Ephriam places Madea, a repeat offender, under house arrest and sets a $5,000 property or cash bond for Helen.  Brian kicks his addict wife Debrah out of their home, causing him to have a strained relationship with their daughter Tiffany, who wants to join the church choir. Fearing that Tiffany will turn to drugs like her mother, Brian refuses until Madea convinces him otherwise, encouraging him to also fix his relationship with Debrah. Helen cultivates a relationship with Orlando. Meanwhile, career criminal Jamison Milton Jackson asks Charles to defend him in his trial for shooting an undercover cop during a drug deal. He gives Charles $300,000 for both attorney’s fee and to bribe the judge to rule in his favor, revealing that Charles received most of his money through drug deals and buying off judges.  In divorce court, Helen lets Charles keep all the money and property, provided he pay Brian's attorney fees and continue paying for her mother Myrtle Jean's stay in a nursing home since he made her place her there; Charles agrees to both terms. In the shooting case, despite Charles' efforts, the jury convicts Jamison. While being led out of the courtroom, Jamison snatches the bailiff's gun and shoots Charles in the back for failing to get him acquitted.  Orlando proposes to Helen, but before she can respond, she sees the shooting on the news and goes to the hospital with Brian, where they encounter Brenda upon arriving. The doctor explains the possibility of Charles being permanently paralyzed from the waist down and asks if he should be resuscitated if his health deteriorates. Brenda chooses to let Charles die, feeling that if he somehow survives but is unable to walk, he will spend the rest of his life using a wheelchair, but Helen, still Charles's legal wife, tells the doctor to do everything possible for him to ensure his survival.  Charles is discharged from the hospital, returns home with Helen, and resumes verbally abusing her, but Helen takes the opportunity to retaliate for years of neglect as well as verbal, emotional, and physical abuse. She physically asssaults and upsets him by disclosing that Brenda finally revealed her true colors by not only opting to let Charles die, but also by emptying his bank account and leaving with their sons during his hospitalization. She additionally reveals that their housekeeper Christina has left as well because Charles has no money to pay her, and that all of his friends, associates, and connections have abandoned him now that he has been left crippled and penniless.  Helen and Orlando argue about her moving back in with Charles to look after him, and he leaves heartbroken. Charles realizes the error of his past treatment towards Helen and apologizes to her, realizing that she was the only person who truly cared about him. She assists in his recovery, and one Sunday at church, he regains his ability to walk, while Debrah, now clean and sober following treatment, reconciles with Brian. Charles seeks to begin his relationship anew with Helen, but during a family dinner with Madea, she gives him her wedding ring and signed divorce papers and informs him they will always be friends, ending her relationship with him on amicable terms. She ventures to Orlando's workplace, reaffirms that she loves him, requests that he propose again, and happily accepts when he does.