70-year-old widower Ben Whittaker, a retired executive from DEX One, considers retirement too boring. He applies to fill the newly conceived position of senior intern at About The Fit, a fast-growing e-commerce fashion startup in Brooklyn.   Ben impresses everyone and is one of five senior interns hired. He is assigned to work with CEO Jules Ostin, who is somewhat skeptical at first and ignores him. However, Ben wins over his co-workers with his congeniality and his helpful advice on life and work.   One morning, Ben organizes a messy desk Jules complained about, winning her good graces. After work, he notices Jules's chauffeur drinking, persuades him to leave and drives Jules home himself, a role he will fill in days to come.  But on their first drive together Ben asks Jules several personal questions, and she asks her VP, Cameron, to reassign him. However, that evening they bond when Jules finds out that he worked for almost 40 years in the same building where About the Fit is based. The next morning Jules learns that Cameron had replaced Ben as driver with Doris. A horrible driver, she almost crashes. Jules apologizes and begs Ben to come back, and he does.   Jules starts assigning him work, and he is able to help lighten her workload. Ben also starts a relationship with About the Fit's in-house masseuse, Fiona. When Jules accidentally sends a scathing email to her mom, she sends Ben and some coworkers to break into her mother's house to delete it from her computer. They narrowly avoid getting caught by the police in the process.   Ben also gets to know Jules' family. Her husband, Matt, gave up his own career to be a stay-at-home dad to their daughter, Paige, when About The Fit started to take off. However, the marriage is slowly breaking apart as the couple grows more distant. When driving Paige home from a party, Ben discovers that Matt is having an affair.  Meanwhile, Jules is under pressure to give up her post of CEO to someone outside of the company, as her investors fear she is unable to cope with the unanticipatedly high workload. Believing it will give her more time at home with her family, Jules is willing to consider the proposal.   She asks Ben to accompany her on a business trip to San Francisco to interview a potential CEO candidate. While there Jules reveals that she knows about Matt's cheating, but has not confronted him about it because she was not ready to deal with it.  To buy herself time to save her marriage, Jules decides to hire the prospective CEO. But Ben greatly encourages her to think about how much effort and passion she has used to build About The Fit. Matt unexpectedly drops in at the office and urges her to reconsider, saying that he is sorry and ashamed, and wants to support her in her dreams.   Jules goes out looking for Ben, wanting to tell him that she has changed her mind, and finds him enjoying his tai chi exercise group. She finally lets herself relax and joins him in practicing tai chi, an act symbolic of her finding balance in her life.