Aging widow Marnie is lonely and heartbroken. When her daughter Lori moves to Los Angeles, for her work as a television screenwriter, Marnie follows in the hope of restarting her life. She begins interfering with Lori's life, constantly calling her and showing up at her house. This annoys Lori, who is currently seeing a therapist.  On Valentine's Day, Lori agrees to go out with Marnie. At the restaurant, JacobLori's exshows up with his new girlfriend. Lori tries to act like she is also dating, but Marnie ruins it for her.  Marnie visits Lori's therapist, hoping to find out why her daughter acts the way she does but instead gets evaluated by her. The therapist believes that Marnie needs to sort out her own issues, relating to the loss of her husband.   Marnie gradually learns to develop new friendships. She helps her tech friend Freddie, who she met while buying a new mobile, with rides to his night classes. She volunteers at the hospital, upon Lori's suggestion, and connects with a female stroke victim, helping the lady reconnects with her son.   At the baby shower of Lori's friend Emily, Marnie connects with her friends and is introduced to Emily's divorced father-in-law, Mark. They have things in common, but she's not interested. Marnie connects with Lori's friend Jillian, who she offers to babysit for. As her own mom died when she was young, Jillian ends up taking her as a mom, especially as Marnie helps her pay for a proper wedding.  Freddie's brother Fredo gets a lift from Marnie, leaving a big bag of pot behind. They find it as she is reviewing his test material in the car. A police officer approaches them, so she fills her mouth with it. Shortly after, high, she meets Zipper, who is a retired cop who was on the set where she'd inadvertently become an extra. Marnie and Zipper stay out all night talking and he introduces her to his chickens. He tells her his younger daughter Lizzie is estranged due to his divorce.  Marnie then goes back to NYC to see her daughter working on the pilot and to make her long overdue visit to her late husband family. They want to discuss getting a headstone and distributing his ashes, but she isn't ready.   Back in LA, Lori asks Marnie to help get a pregnancy test kit but Marnie mistakenly gets an ovulation kit. After the rush of emotions and mix up, Lori apologies for the way she had been acting. She explains that she misses her dad so found it hard to look at her. Marnie replies she feels the same but that she is not alone.    Marnie finally pours her husband's ashes in the ocean and for this she is arrested. After Zipper bails her out, they kiss and agree to go watch an action movie together. Back in her car, Marnie sees that she had three voicemails from Lori to which she listens and smiles.  Some time later, Marnie is happily settled into her LA life. She sends a voicemail to Lori asking about her current boyfriend and informing her of her intended trip with Zipper.