Chapter 1 - Paris/The Target  An unnamed professional assassin (credited as "The Killer") stakes out a Parisian hotel room. He prepares to use a sniper rifle to kill a target who will check into the hotel room at an unspecified time. While waiting for the target over a week, he eats, practices yoga, listens to the Smiths, and talks on the phone with his handler, an attorney and his former university law professor, Edward "Eddie" Hodges. The Killer narrates these activities, stressing the mantra of his rules and the routine—even boring—nature of his job and how his cynicism and lack of empathy are beneficial for his chosen occupation, all while growing increasingly sleep-deprived. The target eventually arrives in the company of a dominatrix. The Killer misses his target, accidentally shooting the dominatrix. He flees on an e-scooter, successfully evading the police and disposing his rifle and gear. He then flies to the United States under one of numerous fake identities.  Chapter 2 - Dominican Republic/The Hideout  The Killer returns to his lavish compound in the Dominican Republic to find it has been broken into and his romantic partner Magdala has been attacked. The Killer finds her in an intensive care unit of a hospital, with her brother Marcus watching over her. He learns Magdala was interrogated and tortured by two assassins but managed to injure one of them and escape. He tracks down the taxi driver, Leo, who drove the assassins to the Killer's home. Leo identifies a man with an injured leg, whom he called "The Brute", and a woman who "resembled a Q-Tip". The Killer shoots and kills Leo, leaving his body in his taxi, and, breaking his "Fight only the battle you're paid to fight" rule, seeks to track down the two assassins.  Chapter 3 - New Orleans/The Lawyer  The Killer travels to Hodges' office in New Orleans, Louisiana, and gains entry to the building disguised as a custodial worker. After forcing Dolores, Hodges' secretary and fellow handler, to restrain Hodges and then herself, he destroys the electronic records of their work together. As Hodges attempts to deescalate the situation, The Killer shoots him in the chest with a nail gun in an attempt to torture the names of the hitmen out of him, but Hodges refuses to reveal the names and dies quicker than The Killer anticipated, aspirating his own blood. Dolores offers to show The Killer the assassins' identities in her personal paper files in her home, asking in return that The Killer give her a quick and non-suspicious death so her children can claim the life insurance payout. After receiving the names at her home, The Killer breaks his rule not to show empathy; he breaks her neck and pushes her down a flight of stairs, making the fall look like an accident. Before traveling to the next destination, The Killer disposes of Hodges' body.  Chapter 4 - Florida/The Brute  The Killer drives to St. Petersburg, Florida, identifying The Brute by his limp. After drugging his pit bull, The Killer enters his house to kill him, only to be tackled and have to engage in a lengthy fight with the assassin, who recognizes The Killer, before The Killer shoots him and flees from his reawakened dog, burning down his home with a Molotov cocktail.  Chapter 5 - New York/The Expert  The Killer travels to Beacon, New York, where he confronts The Expert "Q-Tip" assassin in a gourmet restaurant. Appearing to accept her fate, The Expert questions The Killer's motivations in continuing and lessening competency at his profession, as they partake in her "last supper" of whiskey. Proceeding outside to the park, The Expert appears to trip on the stairs and requests The Killer to give her a hand. The Killer, instead, shoots her dead and notices she had a concealed knife in her hand.  Chapter 6 - Chicago/The Client  The Killer finally travels to Chicago, where the client, billionaire venture capitalist Henderson "Clay" Claybourne, lives in an upscale penthouse. The Killer transfers the entirety of his finances to the Dominican Republic under the name Jefferson and observes Claybourne's routine. The Killer then uses inexpensive tools purchased on Amazon to clone Claybourne's keycard and gain access to his penthouse. The Killer confronts Claybourne at gunpoint in his penthouse, asking him if he ordered the retaliatory hit out of personal grievance. Claybourne claims that he has no personal problem with him and, as a first-time client of a hitman, agreed to pay Hodges for "the trail to be scrubbed". Noting his general indifference and having had no specific idea in mind as to why an assassin would come after him, The Killer spares Claybourne, though promising him a "slow death" if Claybourne ever comes for him.  Later, The Killer returns to the Dominican Republic and settles next to a recovering Magdala.