On approach to Denver, Flight 1055 crashes into a skyscraper after the pilots lose control of their aircraft. This marks the third in a series of similar incidents. Federal Aviation Authority investigator Neil McCabe (Rod Rowland) discovers that all of the incriminated planes were equipped with a pioneering flight control chip made by the company Oxcellis. He suspects that the crashes may have been provoked by a hacker who has exploited a vulnerability in Oxcellis' mainframe computer, and is now able to remotely take over every plane that uses their flight management system.  Hoping to thwart another disaster, Rowland lists impending flights using Oxcellis-equipped airliners. His attention is drawn to Flight 672, which is scheduled to travel from Milwaukee to Washington, DC on Independence Day. Positing that its symbolic route makes it the most likely target, he travels to its departure airport. As he is about to embark, the terrorist takes control of the aircraft and forces it to take off. With the help of an airport security guard and Flight 672 attendant Josie (Kristanna Loken), Rowland manages to catch up to the aircraft as it races down the runway, and climbs onboard before it becomes airborne.  Due to more unforeseen interference, both Flight 672 pilots soon find themselves out of commission. Rowland and Josie must team up in a desperate effort to regain control of the plane, and save its motley crew of passengers. Among them are Bernadette (Barbara Carrera), a famous TV actress, Walter (John Bishop), a businessman with a fear of flying, Zoe (Boti Bliss), who is afflicted with brittle bone disease, Philip (Gulshan Grover), a self-absorbed physician travelling with his family, and Ray (Billy Williams), who has an unresolved personal issue with the flight's other attendant, Maxine (Tereza Rizzardi).  Meanwhile, on the ground, the FAA team led by Keller (Tucker Smallwood) is hunting down the terrorist (Alexander Enberg), who calls himself Cain and plans to crash the plane into the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, wiping out much of the surrounding region.