Bob Maconel is an insignificant office worker who fantasizes about murdering his coworkers. On one particularly bad day, Bob is about to go on a murderous rampage when his coworker, Ralf Coleman, beats him to it, shooting up the office and killing several people. Bob shoots Coleman dead with the gun he planned to use on the others. He finds Venessa, a pretty executive he has never had the courage to talk to, wounded on the floor, and saves her life. The former invisible nobody is suddenly thrown into the spotlight of public notice, and he is considered a hero by those he wished to murder. His boss, Gene Shelby, promotes Bob to "VP of Creative Thinking" and gives him all the perks of higher management. Meanwhile, he visits Venessa, who is now a quadriplegic; at first she curses him for not letting her die, and then she asks him to put her out of her misery.  Venessa asks Bob to let her roll down a subway platform in front of an oncoming train. Bob debates whether or not to go through with it, scrawling "should I finish what Coleman started?", on a piece of paper, which he accidentally gives to another employee with other papers to be copied. Bob initially agrees, and takes Venessa out for one last night on the town, before letting her end her life. At the crucial moment, however, he cannot bring himself to let go of her chair, as he has fallen in love with her. They then discover that she can wiggle her little finger, providing hope that she may recover, and they become romantically involved. Bob is still trapped by the demons of his past, however, and fears that as soon as Venessa recovers, she will leave him. He becomes especially insecure when he finds out that Venessa and Shelby were once lovers.  The company psychiatrist, Maurice Gregory, reveals that he knows Bob wrote the note about Coleman, and that Bob was only promoted so management could keep an eye on him. Bob flies into a rage, gets into a fight with two coworkers, and storms out. He returns home to find Shelby visiting Venessa with gifts, further igniting Bob's jealousy. Once Shelby leaves, Bob demands to know what the two of them were doing; Venessa replies that Shelby has become concerned about Bob's behavior and stopped by to check on him. However, Bob opens Shelby's gift and finds photos of Shelby and Venessa together. Bob has a mental breakdown and goes back to the office, taking his gun with him.  Finally, it is revealed that Bob has been hallucinating all of the events since just before the initial shooting. This time, he is in the same position as Coleman was, only instead of killing his coworkers, he shoots himself in front of Venessa. The last scenes show police searching his house to find a note that reads, "You may ask why I did what I did... but what choice did you give me? How else could I have gotten your attention?" In the news, reporters interview his neighbors, who say, "He was a quiet man."