A young woman named Babydoll accidentally shoots her sister in a struggle with their abusive stepfather. The stepfather had murdered their mother and discovered that she left everything to her daughters in her will; he commits her to a hospital for the mentally insane and bribes orderly Blue Jones to forge psychiatrist Vera Gorski's signature, to have Babydoll lobotomized.   Babydoll slips into a fantasy world in which the asylum is a brothel owned by mobster Blue and she and the other patients are sex slaves. She befriends fellow patients Amber, Blondie, Rocket, and Rocket's sister and "star of the show", Sweet Pea. Dr. Gorski is their dance instructor. Blue tells Babydoll he will sell her virginity to the High Roller, actually the doctor scheduled to perform her lobotomy. Gorski has Babydoll perform an erotic dance, during which she fantasizes she is in feudal Japan, meeting the Wise Man. The Wise Man presents her with weapons and tells her that she needs four items to escape: a map, fire, a knife and a key. There is also a fifth unrevealed item that only she can find, which would require "a deep sacrifice" and bring a "perfect victory". She fights three samurai giants, then finds herself back in the brothel, having impressed Blue and other onlookers.  Babydoll convinces the four other girls to join her in escaping. She dances as a distraction while the others obtain the necessary tools. During her dances, she fantasizes about adventures that mirror the escape efforts, such as infiltrating a bunker protected by World War I German soldiers to gain a map (as Sweet Pea copies a map of the building in Blue's office), storming an Orc-infested castle to retrieve fire-producing crystals (as Amber steals a lighter from the mayor), and fighting robotic guards on a train to disarm a bomb (as Sweet Pea steals a kitchen knife from the Cook). In the last fantasy, Rocket sacrifices herself to guarantee Sweet Pea's escape from the bomb's blast, paralleled by the Cook fatally stabbing Rocket as she protects her sister.  Blue overhears Blondie relaying Babydoll's plan to Gorski. He locks Sweet Pea in a closet and confronts the other girls. He fatally shoots Amber and Blondie, then attempts to rape Babydoll. She stabs him with the kitchen knife and steals his master key, then frees Sweet Pea and starts a fire to distract the orderlies while they seek an exit. When men block their way, Babydoll deduces that the fifth item is actually her own sacrifice, and that this is Sweet Pea's story. She distracts the men long enough to allow Sweet Pea to escape.  In the asylum, the surgeon completes Babydoll's lobotomy. Gorski notes that during her short stay, Babydoll stabbed an orderly, started a fire, and helped another girl escape. The surgeon asks Gorski why she authorized the procedure, and Gorski realizes that Blue has been forging her signature. The police apprehend Blue as he attempts to rape Babydoll. As he is being arrested, Blue incriminates Babydoll's stepfather as Babydoll smiles serenely.  Sweet Pea is stopped by police as she tries to board a bus, but the driver (the Wise Man) misleads the police and lets her board.