Sophie is a young American woman who works for The New Yorker as a fact checker. She goes on a pre-honeymoon with her chef fiancé Victor to Verona, Italy. Victor is unmoved by the romance of Italy and uses his time constructively to conduct research for his soon-to-open restaurant, often neglecting Sophie. As Sophie explores Verona, she learns that thousands of "letters to Juliet" are left in Juliet's courtyard each year, written by women from all over the world seeking comfort and advice in love; the letters are collected and answered by a group called the "Secretaries of Juliet". Intrigued, Sophie asks to join them. Sophie later discovers an unanswered letter from a young girl named Claire Smith written in 1957, begging Juliet for guidance on her relationship with a boy named Lorenzo Bartolini. On a whim, Sophie answers the letter, and within a few days the now elderly Claire arrives in Verona with her barrister grandson Charlie. Claire and Sophie take an instant liking to each other, while Sophie and Charlie do not get along.  Claire reveals that in her youth, she made plans to run away with Lorenzo but then stood him up out of fear, and while she eventually married another man, she never forgot Lorenzo. Now widowed, Claire has decided to follow the advice given in Sophie's reply and seek out her long-lost love, despite Charlie's objections to the idea. Sophie goes along with them, hoping Claire's story might kickstart her writing career and is genuinely interested in the story's outcome.  Sophie discovers that there are seventy-four Lorenzo Bartolinis in the area, and the group decides to visit as many as possible in the hope of finding the right one. During this time, Sophie and Charlie grow closer. After many days of searching, they find one Lorenzo who has died, saddening Claire. A frustrated Charlie lashes out at Sophie and accuses her of not knowing what real loss is. Claire, witnessing the dispute, tells Charlie that Sophie's mother had walked away from her when she was a little girl and insists that he apologize to Sophie. The following day, Sophie talks to Charlie about love and her belief that Claire's Lorenzo is still alive, and the two share a kiss, although Sophie quickly pulls away.  On their last day of searching, having accepted that their quest will likely be in vain, Claire points out a vineyard and asks to stop so they can have a farewell drink for Sophie. As Charlie drives down the road, Claire spots a young man who looks exactly like her Lorenzo. They discover that the young man is the grandson of the Lorenzo they have been seeking and that the Bartolini family owns the vineyard they have come to visit. Claire and Lorenzo are finally reunited, and the group spends the afternoon at Lorenzo's home, sharing a meal with the extended Bartolini family while Claire and Lorenzo, a widower, happily reconnect. Later, as Sophie heads back to Verona, Claire pushes Charlie to pursue her, but he backs off when he sees Sophie with Victor.  Back in New York, exhausted by the differences and lack of passion in their relationship, Sophie impulsively breaks up with Victor before returning to Verona to attend Claire and Lorenzo's wedding. During the reception, Claire reads Sophie's reply to her original "letter to Juliet" that set the events in motion, but Sophie runs out crying after seeing Charlie with a woman called Patricia, which he had mentioned was his ex-girlfriend's name. Charlie goes after Sophie and finds her standing on a balcony above him, where she admits she loves him but tells him to go back to his girlfriend. Charlie reveals that this Patricia is his cousin, not his girlfriend, and tells Sophie he loves her back. He climbs up the vine to the balcony, recreating the famous scene from Romeo and Juliet, but accidentally falls down, and they kiss as he lies on the ground as Claire, Lorenzo, and the wedding guests come to see what happened.