West Virginian Jimmy Logan is laid off from his construction job in the tunnels underneath the Charlotte Motor Speedway for failing to inform the manager about his leg injuries during his football career in high school. He is close to his daughter, Sadie, who lives with her mom, Bobbie Jo, and her rich husband, Moody. Sadie performs in beauty pageants, and Jimmy's hair stylist sister, Mellie, does her hair. Bobbie Jo and Moody plan on moving to Lynchburg as Moody plans to open up a new car dealership.  Jimmy goes to a bar tended by his ex-soldier brother Clyde, who lost his lower arm fighting in Iraq. A pretentious NASCAR-team owner, Max Chilblain, makes fun of Clyde's disability, leading to a fight with Jimmy, while Clyde sets fire to Max's car. The next day, Jimmy tells Clyde his plan to rob the Speedway, exploiting his knowledge of its underground pneumatic tube system for moving its vast amount of money.  Clyde and Jimmy recruit their sister Mellie, incarcerated safe-cracker Joe Bang, and Joe's dimwitted brothers, Sam and Fish. They will break Joe out of prison and return him later that day. Clyde intentionally gets himself sent to prison on a minor charge. With the unknowing help of a woman working at the vault, Mellie, Sam and Fish infest the Speedway's tube system with painted cockroaches, determining which tubes go to the vault. While gathering supplies, Jimmy meets former schoolmate Sylvia, who gives him a tetanus shot inside her mobile clinic, which is in need of donations.  Jimmy learns that construction at the speedway is being completed ahead of schedule, forcing them to mount the heist a week earlier, during the much busier Coca-Cola 600 race on Memorial Day weekend.  Joe arranges for fellow inmates to stage a riot, resulting in a lockdown that hides his and Clyde's escape. Mellie meets them in a Ford Shelby GT350 stolen from Moody. At the speedway, Sam and Fish blow up a cell tower to disable the credit card machines, forcing vendors to accept cash only. Clyde, Jimmy and Joe enter the tube room, and Joe uses an explosive improvised from bleach, gummy bears and a dietary salt substitute to blow open the gate from the tube to the vault. They connect the tube to a giant vacuum pump, and suck up all the cash into garbage bags. Jimmy accidentally reverses the direction of the vacuum, sucking Clyde's prosthetic arm into the machine. Security guards investigate the smoke from the explosion, but are diverted by Earl, one of Clyde's bar patrons. Sam and Fish get the money out and into Jimmy's truck. On his way out, Clyde is recognized by Chilblain and hits him, then Clyde and Joe sneak back into the prison disguised as firefighters. Jimmy, having retrieved Clyde’s arm from the machine, makes it to his daughter's pageant just in time to see her perform his favorite song, "Take Me Home, Country Roads." Jimmy then abandons the money and anonymously informs the police of its location.  FBI agent Sarah Grayson investigates the heist, dubbed “Ocean's Seven-Eleven" in the press. While she suspects Jimmy, Clyde and Joe, she has no evidence. Due to the unwillingness of the prison warden to report the riot, the refuting of Chilblain's eyewitness account by his disgruntled and bitter race driver, Dayton White, and the speedway president's satisfaction with the money's recovery and insurance settlement, the case is closed after six months. When Joe returns home after prison he finds a garbage bag of money buried in his yard. Sylvia receives an anonymous donation for her clinic, the inmate who orchestrated the prison riot and the woman working at the vault each receive an envelope stuffed with cash.  Unknown to Joe and his brothers, Jimmy had filled extra trash bags during the heist, which he hid at the dump to retrieve later. Now working in a Lowe's store and having bought a house near his daughter and ex-wife's home, Jimmy happily reunites with Clyde, Mellie, Joe, and Sylvia at the bar. The group is watched by Grayson, who tells Clyde that she is new to the area but thinks she will stay for a while.