In 1868, within the Ruby Mountains of Nevada, Gideon roasts hare over an open fire. Suddenly, gunshots ring out and he his shot in the left arm. He grabs what he can and races down the mountain. His attackers emerge fro cover to inspect his campsite. Colonel Morsman Carver, a former Confederate officer, is accompanied by Pope, Hayes, Parsons and the Kid. Carver has hired the other four to help him track Gideon down so he can kill him.  Gideon removes the bullet from his arm with a huge Bowie knife while hiding from Carver. He leaves an open fire burning with the intention of attracting the posse. He ends up killing Pope with his knife and then ventures out again into the wilderness. He attempts to steal a horse, but is caught by a young woman named Charlotte who helps him after she realizes he is injured. She dresses his wound and her family let him sleep overnight in their cabin. He later offers to buy their horse and leaves before daybreak. As the group of men approach Gideon's trail, he lays an ambush using a bear trap which impales the Kid, who is then shot by Carver as an act of mercy. Later, following the discovery of a dead bank robber that Gideon had killed earlier in an act of self-defense. Parsons decides to leave the other men because the dead man's bounty money exceeds what Carver is offering to capture Gideon. As Parsons is preparing to load the dead body onto a horse to take it to Carson City for the reward money, Carver shoots the horse – which he declares is his – leaving Parsons to walk the 30 miles back to town carrying the body.  Coming across a railroad under construction, Gideon hitches his horse and steals some food. The foreman recognizes the horse as stolen and detains Gideon. Carver and his remaining man, Hayes, also reach the railroad site and search for Gideon. Meanwhile, he escapes from custody and makes off with another horse. They both find a rare pool of water, guarded by an Indian named Charon, who extracts dear payment from both men so they might continue their journeys.  As Carver and Hayes draw closer, Gideon's horse can no longer take the strain of the heat and collapses. Gideon euthanizes the horse with his knife by slitting its throat. When Carver and Hayes reach the horse's carcass, Hayes dismounts and marvels at Gideon having intentionally disemboweled the horse. Suddenly Gideon leaps out from the horse's belly, where he had been hiding, and puts his knife to Hayes' neck, threatening to kill him if Carver doesn't give up his gun. Carver instead shoots Hayes with his last bullet. Confronting each other, Carver and Gideon recall the events that put them at odds. After the end of the American Civil War, Gideon was ordered to track down former Confederate officers. When he arrived at Carver's home in Seraphim Falls to interrogate him, Carver was out in a nearby field.   To coerce Carver's wife into revealing his whereabouts, and believing that their house was empty, Gideon orders their barn to be set on fire. A solder searching the house carelessly knocks over a kerosene lantern. The blaze quickly spreads as Carver returns from the fields. While the soldiers restrain him, his wife and son run into the house to save the infant child who is still inside. Both men look on with horror at the unfolding tragedy; trapped by the flames, Carver's wife and children perish. Gideon, racked with guilt over the tragedy, drops his gun belt and walks away from his men. The two men fight, Gideon eventually getting the better of Carver. He points Carver in the direction of a nearby town and tells him that he will get nothing but torment if he continues his pursuit. Gideon takes the horses ridden by Carver and Hayes and sets off deep into the desert. Both are visited by the mystical Madame Louise, who offers them a Faustian bargain: to trade items they need to survive (Gideon's horse, Carver's water) for something that will perpetuate their feud (a bullet for Gideon, a gun for Carver). When Carver catches up with Gideon, both men are on the brink of exhaustion and death. They confront each other again with their pistols. Gideon wounds Carver but, instead of killing him with his knife, he offers himself to Carver. Carver decides not to shoot him and throws his pistol aside. Gideon helps Carver to his feet and the two men walk in different directions into the distance. As a final gesture Gideon abandons his knife (his weapon of choice throughout the film), throwing it into the ground.