On the eve of his retirement from the National Basketball Association (NBA), Kobe Bryant describes his love for the game, which began when he was a young child. The film starts off with Kobe hitting a game-winning dunk as the game clock is running out and winning the game for the Los Angeles Lakers. He then starts off by saying "Dear Basketball" and goes on to reminisce about his childhood, rolling his father's tube socks and shooting imaginary game-winning shots in the Great Western Forum, falling in love with the game of basketball. The love Kobe had for basketball made him give everything from his mind, body, spirit, and soul to show just how in love with it he was. Kobe then goes on to explain that as 6-year-old boy, "I never saw the end of the tunnel / I only saw myself running out of one", and because of this, he always chose to play the game as great as he could, saying, "And so I ran. I ran up and down every court / After every loose ball for you / You asked for my hustle / I gave you my heart / Because it came with so much more." Kobe then says, "I played for the sweat and the hurt / Not because challenge called me / But because YOU called me", and by doing so he was able to achieve his Laker dream. Then, Kobe explains how due to his Achilles injury from 2013, he has only one more NBA season left in him to dedicate to basketball. Kobe says, "My heart can take the pounding / My mind can handle the grind / But my body knows it's time to say goodbye." Later, with a heavy heart, Kobe comes to terms with this and accepts the fact that he is ready to let go of basketball. Kobe then tells basketball that he wants to let it know now so they can make the best out of the little precious time they have left together by saying, "We have given each other / All that we have." Kobe ends the film by claiming "no matter what I do next / I'll always be that kid / With the rolled up socks / Garbage can in the corner / Five seconds on the clock / Ball in my hands" and continues to depict one of his iconic buzzer-beater shots with the game clock running down. Kobe's final words to basketball are: "Love you always, Kobe."