Gay Austrian fashion reporter Brüno Gehard is fired from his own television show, Funkyzeit mit Brüno after disrupting a Milan Fashion Week catwalk, and his lover Diesel leaves him for another man. Accompanied by his assistant's assistant, Lutz Schulz, he travels to the United States to become a famous Hollywood celebrity.  Brüno unsuccessfully attempts an acting career as an extra on Medium. He then interviews Paula Abdul, until he scares her off when he serves her sushi on the body of a totally naked Mexican man, even though she had no problem in sitting on a fully-clothed Mexican man beforehand. He then produces a celebrity interview pilot, showing him dancing erotically, criticizing Jamie Lynn Spears' fetus with reality TV star Brittny Gastineau, unsuccessfully attempting to interview actor Harrison Ford, and closing with a close-up of his penis being swung around by pelvic gyrations. A focus group reviewing the pilot hate it. Brüno then attempts and fails to make a sex tape by seducing politician Ron Paul, claiming to have mistaken him for drag queen RuPaul.  Brüno consults a spiritualist to contact the deceased Rob Pilatus of Milli Vanilli (a former lover) for advice, miming various sex acts on the "invisible" Pilatus. He consults charity consultants to select a world problem to maximize his fame, choosing the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. He flies to Jerusalem to interview former Mossad agent Yossi Alpher and Palestinian politician Ghassan Khatib and confuses hummus and Hamas. He sings his own "Dove of Peace" while cajoling the two to caress each other's hands. He also meets with Ayman Abu Aita, a militant group leader of al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades in a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon, where he hopes to be kidnapped.The actual location, according to Abu Aita, was a private section of a popular restaurant at the Everest Hotel  in the town of Beit Jala, in a section of the West Bank opposite Bethlehem under Israeli control. al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a coalition of Palestinian militias in the West Bank. Abu Aita claims to be unaffiliated with al-Aqsa and pursued legal action against Cohen. Brüno insults him and he is ordered to leave.  Brüno interviews parents of child models, asking if their toddlers would undergo liposuction and perform dangerous stunts. On a talk show hosted by Richard Bey, he shows the African American audience a baby he named O.J., whom he acquired in Africa by trading him for a U2 Product Red iPod. He shows photographs of the boy in dangerous and provocative situations and the audience is appalled. Social services take O.J. from Brüno, driving him to depression. He goes to a diner to gorge on high-carb junk food. Lutz carries him back to a hotel room. After a night of sex, they awake to find themselves trapped in a bondage mechanism, unable to find the key. They call a hotel engineer for help and are asked to leave. After accosting a group of anti-gay protesters from the Westboro Baptist Church while still in bondage gear and boarding a bus, Brüno and Lutz remove their equipment in Huntsville, Alabama. After being arrested, Lutz says he loves Brüno, but Brüno does not reciprocate, stating he was influenced by "carb goggles". Lutz leaves Brüno.  After realizing the biggest names in Hollywood are heterosexual, Brüno consults two gay converters to help him become heterosexual. He attempts other "masculine" activities, such as learning karate, joining the National Guard, going hunting, and attending a swingers' party (during which he is whipped by a dominatrix).  Eight months later, Brüno, under the alias "Straight Dave", hosts a cage-fight match in Arkansas, "Straight Dave's Man Slammin' Maxout". Lutz appears at the event and insults Brüno, leading to them fighting in the cage. During the confrontation, they begin to kiss and strip in front of shocked spectators who throw objects into the cage. The moment gets international press, and the now-famous Brüno attempts to marry Lutz, getting O.J. back in exchange for a MacBook Pro. At Abbey Road Studios Brüno records a charity song, "Dove of Peace", featuring Bono, Elton John, Chris Martin, Snoop Dogg, Sting, and Slash.