In 1854, Mary Bee Cuddy is a 31-year-old spinster from New York, a former teacher who journeyed to the Midwest for more opportunity. She is an active member of the small farming community of Loup in the Nebraska Territory and has significant financial prospects and sizable land ownership. She seems strong and independent but suffers from depression and feels isolated. She makes dinner for her neighbor Bob Giffen and sings to him, but when she proposes, he turns her down, saying she is plain-looking and too bossy. He leaves to find a wife back east.  After a harsh winter, three women from the community show signs of mental instability due to the hardships they have faced. Arabella Sours loses three children to diphtheria, Theoline Belknap kills her own child after a poor harvest puts her family at risk of starvation, and Gro Svendsen, a Danish immigrant, is in an abusive relationship with her husband and breaks down after her mother dies. Reverend Dowd calls upon one of their husbands to escort the women eastward to a church in Hebron, Iowa that cares for the mentally ill. Theoline's husband, Vester Belknap, refuses to participate in the lottery to determine who will escort the women; Cuddy takes his place, and the lot falls on her.  While preparing for her journey, Cuddy encounters George Briggs, a claim jumper, who has been left on horseback with a noose around his neck for stealing Bob Giffen's land while he is away. Scared to make the trip alone, she frees him, and in return demands his help escorting the women. He immediately casts doubt on the job and insists he be free to abandon her at any time. To persuade him, Cuddy tells him that she is mailing $300 to await his arrival in Iowa, but she secretly keeps it with her.  Briggs's experience comes in handy when the group crosses paths with hostile Pawnee, and he is able to bribe them by giving up Dorothy, Cuddy's horse. Later, when Arabella is kidnapped by a freighter, Briggs gives chase, and the two men scuffle before Arabella kills her kidnapper. Eventually the caravan comes across the grave of an 11-year-old girl that has been desecrated by Indians, and Cuddy insists they stop and restore it. Briggs vows to push on, so Cuddy stays behind and agrees to catch up with him. After restoring the grave, Cuddy sets out on horseback. However, she loses her way, and after riding all night discovers that she has gone in a circle, and her horse has led her back to the grave.  Finally catching up to Briggs after another night of riding, Cuddy, distraught over having to wander the prairie, suggests they marry. Briggs, like all the previous men, rejects Cuddy, saying he "ain't no farmer" and is only along for the promised reward. Later that night, a naked Cuddy propositions him, and despite his initial protestations, the two have sex. Rising late the next morning, Briggs finds that Cuddy has hanged herself. Briggs chastises Sours, Belknap and Svendsen, blaming their illness for Cuddy's death as he buries her body. He discovers that she had kept the $300 with her the entire time, and so takes a horse and abandons the three women. However, the trio follow him on foot, and Arabella almost drowns while chasing him across a river. Briggs saves her and decides to go on to Iowa.  Briggs seeks food and shelter at an empty hotel belonging to Irishman Aloysius Duffy, who informs him that they have no rooms available for the caravan as a group of 16 investors are expected shortly, and the women would sour the establishment. Briggs lashes out at Duffy, whose men pull out guns of their own, resulting in a brief stand-off. Briggs leaves, but returns that night alone on horseback. He sends away the young cook, sets the hotel on fire and shoots Duffy in the foot. Briggs takes a suckling pig to feed himself and the women and leaves all inside the hotel to be burned alive.  Briggs reaches Hebron, passing the women into the care of Altha Carter, the wife of the church's reverend. He informs her of Cuddy's death but does not disclose the true cause. Guilty about having rejected Mary Bee's proposal, he has a wooden slab engraved with her name and plans to mark her grave with it. He discovers that his $300 is worthless, as the Bank of Loup has failed since they left. He gives a pair of shoes to Tabitha Hutchinson, a hard-working young maid at the hotel where he is staying, and then proposes to her, after advising her not to marry some young man going west, but to stay in town. She replies, "Maybe." He then boards the open-decked river ferry heading back west, where he sings a rowdy song with two musicians on deck. Briggs fires his pistol and shouts at people on the pier who complain about the noise. Eventually, one of the bargemen kicks Mary Bee's grave marker off the edge of the deck into the river, and unnoticed by Briggs, it slips underwater.