Markiplier and his assistant break into a museum to steal an ancient box located in a vault. A chain of escapades leads them to obtaining the two keys required to enter the vault. Mark grabs the box, triggering an alarm. Mark gives two escape options: going down a sewer, or using a bomb and escaping from the vault.  If they choose the sewer, they stumble upon a branch leading to a dark tunnel and a light one. Traveling to the light tunnel brings them to the middle of the ocean, resulting either with the assistant being abducted by pirates, or the pair being stranded on a deserted island, either being abducted by aliens Hanson and Avidan, or joining a potential cannibal. If the assistant chooses the dark tunnel, Mark repeatedly suggests splitting up. This results in Mark's death or disappearance. Only one of the "split up" decisions results in the assistant being confronted by "Darkiplier," who tells them that he has hidden codes in every ending, as well as saying that Mark is a liar snake, leading to the final, 31st ending. If the assistant chooses not to split, the two enter a tunnel inhabited by the "Sewer Cult"; when chaos ensues, the assistant holds Mark over a pit. If they decide to let him go, the assistant escapes the tunnel. If they hang on, they both fall, along with the box from the vault. Mark finds a wormhole device, allowing them to escape and return to the start.  If the assistant chooses to use the bomb instead of the sewer to escape the vault, they and Mark escape and are presented with two getaway options: a helicopter or a car.  If the assistant chooses the helicopter, they are sent to a rehabilitation prison. The assistant can attempt to gain respect from the guards or the prisoners. If they attempt the former, they find themselves unsuccessful and try to do it on their own. In one of the resulting endings, the box contains a fairy that grants wishes, but is confiscated by a prison guard due to its noise. In another ending, Mark is ambushed by Bob, an undercover federal marshal. If the assistant shoots Bob, he takes off a mask to reveal that he is actually Wade. Mark is then shot by the real Bob, who then reveals that the assistant was also Wade all along. The assistant may also open the box, sending them back to the beginning. Refusing to enter a human-shaped hole reverses the roles of Bob and Wade, and travelling back in time results in the assistant being interviewed. Entering the hole, meanwhile, slowly deforms the assistant. If they attempt to gain the respect of the prisoners, inmate Yancy explains that none of the prisoners desire to leave, and asks if they still wish to leave. If they do not want to, they kill another inmate to achieve a life sentence. If they do wish to, Yancy offers assistance.  If the assistant chooses the car instead of the helicopter, Mark tells the assistant that the car broke down amid a ride. He offers options of walking or fix the car. If they decide to fix the car, a sinkhole separates them. The assistant reaches a cave, where a man named Illinois, resembling Indiana Jones, hands the assistant a cursed monkey statue and asks them to place it on a pedestal. If they refuse to place it, the assistant, seemingly possessed by the statue, attacks Illinois. If they place it, they are both briefly transported to the monkey heaven before Illinois leaves them behind.  If they decide to walk instead of fixing the car, a horde of zombies chase them. Unbeknown to Mark, the assistant is bitten by one of the zombies. If they tell the truth, Mark tells them to go away, and the assistant lives with the zombies forever. Otherwise, they are given a choice between finding a scientist or going to a nearby shelter: Fort Brannagan, supposedly the only zombie-proof area. There, Mark and the assistant are inspected for bites by a soldier named Ed. If the assistant tells the truth about their bite, they are shot. If they do not, it is revealed that the fort has been infiltrated by zombies, and that Ed has been bitten, rigging the fort to explode to prevent the virus' spread. Then, the assistant reveals their bite to Mark.  The box from the vault is then revealed to be the "world's oldest picnic basket", and the assistant is given a choice between two ancient foods: a 2000-year-old peanut butter and jelly sandwich or a 17 AD tuna fish sandwich. The former turns the assistant into a relaxed zombie, creating a human-zombie utopia. The latter creates a cure to the zombie virus. At the lab, a scientist explains that an anomaly has caused time and space to warp; she believes the assistant is the anomaly, attempting to kill them. If they attempt to flee, the assistant becomes a zombie, attacking Mark. If they accept their fate, Mark takes the bullet for them, after which it is revealed that the box was the anomaly. As she destroys the box, the branching timeline of the film is briefly shown before returning to the 31st ending, with Mark and the assistant at the beginning, confused on why they are at the museum.