Clawdeen Wolf is a hybrid half-werewolf girl, born from human father Apollo and werewolf mother Selena. On her 15th birthday, she receives an acceptance letter to study at Monster High. Although reluctant, widower Apollo lets her attend, only if she hides her human side as officially humans aren't allowed.  Upon arriving at Monster High, Clawdeen befriends Frankie Stein, a non-binary, brilliant Franken-monster, and falls in love with Deuce Gorgon, son of Medusa. She also meets Draculaura, daughter of Dracula; Cleo de Nile, Deuce's ex-girlfriend and daughter of the Mummy; Lagoona Blue, a Colombian sea monster; and zombie Ghoulia Yelps. The school's Headmistress Bloodgood invites Clawdeen, as daughter of an alum, to represent the students at a Monster High Council on the upcoming Founder's Day.  Clawdeen discovers that she temporarily transforms into a human when feeling strong emotions, particularly around Deuce. During class, her professor Mr. Komos recounts the story of Edward "Eddy" Hyde, a former student and half-monster who was expelled when his human side was discovered, allowing him to be killed by hunters. He says Hyde's secret lab is in the school and that he created a formula to transform himself into a full-blooded monster, but wasn't able to test it as he was killed beforehand. Clawdeen decides to find and drink the formula.  Frankie discovers Clawdeen's secret, but instead of shunning her, they help her look for Hyde's lab in the school graveyard. There, they find Draculaura practicing the forbidden witchcraft which they promise to keep secret in exchange for help. They find the lab, but it has a lock that only a certain hand can open.  Draculaura finds a spell that might unlock the lab, with ogre's bone as one of the ingredients. Clawdeen collects some from Bloodgood's mug and is nearly caught by Cleo, but Draculaura casts a spell to change Clawdeen's likeness. The next ingredient is snake's venom, which Clawdeen obtains from Deuce's hair; they develop feelings for each other after gaining each other's trust.   Later, Clawdeen, Frankie and Draculaura complete the spell, but can't unlock the lab and are caught by Bloodgood, Komos, and Cleo, the latter of whom told Bloodgood about Draculaura's practicing witchcraft. As the school starts to quake, Bloodgood realizes that there is an "untrue monster heart" among them.  The next day, feeling she's putting everyone at risk, Clawdeen leaves the school. Draculaura and Frankie follow and convince her to return, promising to help her no matter what. On Founder's Day, they discover Clawdeen's transformed human hand can open Hyde's lab. Initially it seems to simply be an ogre's tomb, but they find Hyde's lab and formula behind a hidden door.   Clawdeen almost drinks the formula, but is reluctant to give up her human half. Suddenly, Mr. Komos appears, revealing he is also part human and telling her that giving up on yourself isn't the answer. When she hands it to him, he drinks it instead. Revealing he is Hyde's son, Komos seeks to avenge his father's death by destroying Monster High.  Komos transforms into a full-blooded monster who can absorb monsters' powers, taking Draculaura's first. After locking him in the lab, Clawdeen, Frankie and Draculaura call Cleo for help, who arrives with Lagoona, Deuce, Ghoulia, Abbey and Heath. Komos escapes and steals Deuce's powers next, transforming Deuce into stone; Clawdeen, heartbroken, transforms into a full human, to everyone's shock. Clawdeen uses Cleo's phone to make Mr. Komos see his own reflection, petrifying him and returning Draculaura and Deuce's powers. Bloodgood, Dracula, and the Monster High Council arrive in time, discovering both Komos' intentions and Clawdeen's secret.  The next day, as Apollo arrives to take Clawdeen back to the human world, Headmistress Bloodgood surprises them. She's not expelling her because of her "true monster heart" and Dracula states they are rewriting the school's charter to acknowledge that not all humans are bad. Clawdeen is welcomed as their first official human-blooded student, Dracula allows Draculaura to practice witchcraft, and Deuce runs for student council. Clawdeen is celebrated by everyone.  In an unknown place, a witch watches through a crystal ball and instructs her minions to bring Draculaura to her so they can use her to end the war between witches and vampires.