Alex Claremont-Diaz, the son of Ellen Claremont, the first female president of the United States, attends the wedding of Prince Phillip, the eldest grandson of the King of the United Kingdom. Alex has a long-standing feud with Prince Henry, Phillip's younger brother and the "spare" to the British throne. During the reception, Alex and Henry get into an altercation, resulting in embarrassing reports in the following morning's newspapers.  To mitigate the incident's press fallout, especially as President Claremont is seeking re-election, Alex and Henry are forced into a series of staged interviews and joint public appearances at which they pose as friends. Later, in a private moment, Alex admits to Henry that he began to resent him after Henry rebuffed him at Alex's first appearance as a public figure. Henry apologizes and the two make amends, later beginning to text and become jocular, bantering friends.  Invited to Alex's annual New Year's party, Henry leaves abruptly after seeing Alex kiss several girls at midnight. Alex follows him outdoors to the White House grounds. Henry kisses Alex, but fails to respond to Alex's attempts to contact him over the following weeks. After confiding in Nora, Alex realizes that he is attracted to Henry.  Weeks later, at a presidential dinner, Alex reunites with Henry and the pair become lovers, although they keep their involvement secret from everyone except for Nora, Henry's sister Beatrice, Henry's best friend Percy, and their ever-present Secret Service and MI5 bodyguards.  When Alex comes up with a plan for his mother to win Texas in the upcoming election, President Claremont sends him there to lead her Texas campaign. He later travels to Brooklyn to speak at the Democratic National Convention, where Henry unexpectedly visits him. Alex later comes out to his mother, who is supportive, but advises him to think about his relationship carefully.  Alex invites Henry to his family's vacation home near Austin, Texas, and Alex begins to tell Henry that he is in love with him, but Henry, fearing that he cannot sustain a love-relationship – since the British royal family will not tolerate anyone being in an overt gay relationship – pre-emptively leaves the conversation and flees back to England. He refuses to respond to Alex's attempts to contact him. Alex visits Henry in London unexpectedly and demands an explanation for his behavior. Henry admits that he loves Alex just as Alex loves him, but explains that his royal position makes it impossible. Alex convinces Henry that their relationship is worth fighting for, and the two reconcile.  Shortly after Alex returns to the U.S., Alex and Henry's personal e‑mails to each other are hacked and posted online, and are being widely reported in the press. Both the White House and the Palace cut off all Henry's and Alex's means of contact. Zahra, the White House Deputy Chief of Staff, gets in touch with Shaan, Henry's equerry, and Alex and Henry are finally able to talk. Alex immediately flies to London to reunite with Henry. King James III summons them to a meeting and tells them that they cannot be together since their relationship is incompatible with royal tradition. However, Henry's sister Bea notices a crowd gathered in front of Buckingham Palace in support of them, and finds news reports of similar crowds of supporters in many areas of the U.K. Alex and Henry step outside together onto the balcony and openly greet the public as a couple.  On election night, Henry returns to the United States to be with Alex, whose plan to win Texas for his mother ultimately results in her re-election. Alex and Henry later visit Alex's childhood home in Austin to personally celebrate.