During the American financial crisis and presidential election campaign of 2008, Johnny "Squirrel" Amato plans to rob a Mafia poker game. He enlists Frankie, a former business associate, and Russell, a heroin-addicted Australian expatriate who steals purebred dogs to sell in Florida. They decide to target a game run by Markie Trattman, who is known to have previously orchestrated an inside job by paying two men to rob his own illegal poker game. Squirrel anticipates that Markie will be the obvious suspect, and the crime syndicate Markie is involved with will simply have him killed without investigating further.  Though obviously amateurs, Frankie and Russell manage to successfully carry out the armed robbery, and escape with around one hundred thousand dollars.  An enigmatic criminal boss named Driver meets with hitman Jackie Cogan, to work out how to deal with the situation created by the robbery. Mob operated poker games have stopped as players fear more violence, throwing the underground criminal economy into chaos.  Jackie will have a series of bureaucratic headaches dealing with Driver, who seems to belong to some sort of semi-legitimate crime syndicate. Jackie refers to him as, “counsellor,” suggesting Driver may be a lawyer.  Although Jackie correctly intuits Markie was uninvolved with the recent heist, he tries to explain to Driver why Markie still needs to die. Since he looks guilty, if no example is made it would encourage further robberies by street level thugs.  Driver pushes back strongly on having Markie murdered, and although he says it is just going to cause Markie unnecessary suffering, Jackie is forced to agree to having him receive a severe beating by mobsters Steve and Barry.  Meanwhile, Russell travels to Florida with a man named Kenny Gill to sell the stolen dogs. Russell inadvertently informs Kenny of his involvement in the heist while trying to recruit him as a drug dealer. Unknown to Russell, Kenny is an acquaintance of Dillon’s, and he informs him that Russell, Frankie, and Squirrel are the perpetrators.  Jackie finally convinces Driver that Markie must die, but only after couching his reasoning in business language regarding bad publicity. This again attests to a semi-legitimate corporate culture behind the crime ring to which Dillon and Driver belong.  Kenny drives Jackie, and they stalk Markie to a street light, where Jackie  kills him from the rear seat of their car. With Markie dead, Russell, Frankie, and Squirrel remain to be murdered.  However, there is a problem with the hit on Squirrel, as he and Jackie are acquainted. Jackie convinces Driver to bring in another hitman, Mickey Fallon, of whom Jackie speaks highly. While explaining why he wants to hire Mickey, Jackie explains to Driver his philosophy of "killing them softly,” assassinating his victims from a distance, or in ways which allow them no chance to experience fear, despair or suffering of any kind.  Mickey, holed up in an expensive hotel room, procrastinates, and instead of carrying out the hit on Squirrel, indulges in binge drinking and sex with prostitutes. He had previously admitted to Jackie how he violated his parole to be there, and does not seem to care about anything except bringing up old grudges and ignoring Jackie’s attempts to motivate him to get on with his job.  Thus it becomes clear the respected hitman has lost his nerve and perhaps the ability to carry out his orders. Jackie decides he must carry out the hit on Squirrel himself, but first explains to Driver how he will arrange Mickey's arrest and extradition back to New York.  Russell is arrested on a drug possession charge before he can be murdered by Jackie. Meanwhile, Jackie confronts Frankie, and convinces him to trade Squirrel's whereabouts for his life. Jackie has Frankie drive him to where Squirrel will have his regular rendezvous with a woman. Upon reaching Squirrel's apartment complex, Jackie kills Squirrel with a shotgun. After confirming Squirrel is dead, Jackie has Frankie drive him to get his car several hours away.  Frankie becomes very nervous and begins speeding. Unable to calm him, or get him to slow down, Jackie takes over driving. In keeping with his philosophy of “killing them softly,” once they arrive at the parking garage, Jackie shoots Frankie in the head without warning. Jackie then wipes down the car to remove any fingerprints he might have left, and leaves the scene.  On the night of the presidential election, Jackie meets with Driver to collect his fee for the three hits. On the TV in the bar, Barack Obama is giving his election victory speech. The two argue over his fee, with Driver trying to pay a lesser amount and Jackie insisting on the full sum. Referring to Obama's speech, Jackie angrily declares: "This guy wants to tell me we're living in a community? Don't make me laugh. I'm living in America, and in America, you're on your own. America is not a country; it's just a business. Now fucking pay me."