Now that it is their senior year, four young friends named Annie, Kayla, Michelle and Stephanie band together to get what they want.  Annie is trying to lose her virginity to her boyfriend. Stephanie is a confident lacrosse player who is blackmailing her school’s perverted principal into retiring by recording him being chained up and whipped by her. Kayla is insecure about her boyfriend Tim cheating and constantly goes through his phone asking if she is the best girlfriend he has ever had. Michelle is a sex toy expert who prides herself on her knowledge.   They all make a pact to get what they need this year. Along comes Grant, a handsome new guy in school. He meets Michelle first as she is rushing to class, as she is distracted by the sight of him, she runs into a door and he helps her up.  Tim breaks up with Kayla and as Grant witnesses this, he offers help in making her ex jealous. Stephanie is playing lacrosse and meets Grant by knocking him to the ground during a play.  Michelle takes Annie to a sex shop to buy her first toy, a vibrating set of panties. Annie uses it later that day while having phone sex with her boyfriend. Grant and his mother Ellen come over to introduce themselves, especially Ellen to Annie’s single father Kevin, who tells Grant to go upstairs and meet his daughter.  Michelle and Stephanie end up liking Grant and employ ways to win his affection. Michelle, playing the damsel in distress trips and falls into a locker in front of him. He takes her to the nurse and Oliver, the principal's assistant, a nerdy boy who has a crush on her, helps out. Stephanie goes to Grant's friend Emmett (her old friend who she had a falling out with) and asks for his help, giving him $100.  Annie runs into Grant in the library and they team up to study and slowly start falling for each other. Kayla and Tim start having sex clandestinely. Stephanie and Emmett spend more and more time together to help her win over Grant and start falling for each other. Things come to a head at Ellen’s house party when the girls realize they all know and have crushes on Grant.   Grant says he has a crush on Annie and they kiss. She feels guilty and goes to see her boyfriend Jason at college and catches him getting a blowjob from a girl. Initially angry, she feels relief because she realizes she has feelings for Grant.  Ellen helps Michelle realize that Oliver is the perfect guy for her as he also has a love of John F. Kennedy and when doing an imitation of his speech she realizes she likes him. They all go to a party thrown by Stephanie in an attempt to get together with Grant. Realizing that Grant likes Annie they call off the pact. A fight breaks out when Stephanie gets called a slut and Emmett defends her, which then causes Stephanie to punch the assailant and throw him out. Emmett and Stephanie kiss, realizing the whole time they had feelings for each other. Kayla and Tim get back together. Michelle and Oliver end up together.   Jason shows up and inaccurately describes the girls' pact to Grant, who leaves as he feels used. The girls all go to the pajama prom together and help Annie win back Grant. He shows up and they kiss. Their friends set up a tent on the football field so Annie can finally lose her virginity. They all end up having sex with their respective partners.