Slim is a waitress in a Los Angeles diner where she meets Mitch Hiller, who wards off a rude man trying to hit on her for a bet. They eventually marry, have a daughter named Gracie, and live happily in an expensive house.  Years later, Slim discovers Mitch has been repeatedly cheating on her with no remorse. When she threatens to leave, he beats and threatens her. He insists that because he is the breadwinner, he can do whatever he likes, and he won't end his affairs unless she wants to fight him. Mitch warns her not to leave, stating that he refuses to live without her.  Slim goes to Mitch's mother about the abuse. She consoles Slim briefly, but implies that Slim may have provoked Mitch's reaction. Her best friend Ginny advises her to leave him and press charges, but the police offer no help. After Mitch taunts Slim, revealing he knows who she has been talking to, Slim sees no choice but to take Gracie and leave. She enlists her friends' help and tries to escape with Gracie late at night, but Mitch foils the plan and beats Slim again. After a struggle, they escape.  Mitch empties and freezes Slim's bank accounts, leaving her unable to rent a room. Tracking her down at a cheap motel, he tries to break in, but she escapes with Gracie, moving to Seattle to stay with her ex boyfriend Joe.  The next day, men posing as the FBI show up and threaten Joe, damaging his apartment. Slim goes to her wealthy, estranged father, Jupiter. Even though Slim sent several unanswered letters to him as a child, Jupiter claims to have been unaware of her existence and believes she is just after money. Slim and Gracie briefly find refuge at a commune, where Jupiter later contacts her, revealing that Mitch's associates have threatened him, causing him to be interested in helping her. He sends her a large sum of money, allowing her to set up a new life and identity, and tells her to reach out if she needs more.  Joe visits Slim in Minnesota, but Mitch tracks her down with help from his cop friend Robbie, who had posed as the rude man in the staged altercation where Mitch and Slim first met. Slim narrowly escapes a struggle with Mitch and drives away with Gracie. Consulting a lawyer, she is warned there is little she can do, although he tells her the custody hearing is possibly a trick to lure her back to Mitch. Slim goes into hiding in San Francisco and sends Gracie away to safety while she trains in Krav Maga self-defense while enlisting the help of a woman who looks identical to her. She breaks into Mitch's new home and hides his guns, jams the phone, plants fake letters saying she is there to discuss custody of Gracie and awaits his return. When he arrives they fight and Slim beats Mitch unconscious before she eventually knocks him off a balcony to his death. The police regard her actions as self-defense. Slim and Gracie reunite and go to live with Joe in Seattle.