Victoria, an anxiety-ridden young woman, receives an invitation from her sister Carolyn to visit her in Paris.  When she arrives, Carolyn takes her home and after settling in, the sisters' tour Paris and do some shopping. During a break, Carolyn tells Victoria about a secret rave in the Catacombs of Paris taking place that night. They decide to go and despite a long queue are allowed straight in, as Carolyn is friends with the bouncer. Victoria is given a flashlight and follows Carolyn to the rave, where they arrive to hear an introduction by host Jean-Michel. Victoria begins to have an anxiety attack and Jean-Michel escorts her to the private VIP area of the party, where they find Carolyn and a group of friends.  Jean-Michel pours Victoria a large glass of absinthe and tells her of a killer living in the catacombs. Raised by a Satanic Cult, the killer, "Antichrist," feeds on people who get lost in the Catacombs. Most of the group dismisses the story as a myth and they decide to go skinny dipping. Victoria declines to join them and becomes lost as she heads back to the rave. She is joined by Carolyn and as the sisters attempt to find their way back, someone grabs Carolyn and drags her off into the darkness. Victoria finds Carolyn's body and a man in a goat mask begins to chase her. She hides in a storage room, but the man arrives and starts a generator and it seems that the storage room is his home. Victoria escapes and runs back toward the crowd who are still at the rave.  She has scarcely returned when the Prefecture of Police burst in to break up the rave and she is caught up in a mob and knocked unconscious. When she wakes up she is alone in the catacombs again. She encounters a man named Henri who tries to help her, but every exit they come to is blocked. Henri falls through a rotted walkway and injures his leg. Victoria tries to help him, but eventually gives up, taking his map and leaving him in the dark. When she finds an exit she is frightened by someone on the other side trying to get in and she flees, fearing it is the Antichrist. After a chase through the tunnels, she hides behind a wall column, armed with a mining pick. When the pursuer approaches, she strikes out blindly with the pick and hits him.  Shortly after, Carolyn and her friends show up and tell Victoria that it was all just a prank. They wonder why Victoria is crying until they notice Jean-Michel lying dead, felled by the blow of Victoria's pick. Carolyn severely scolds Victoria, who responds by killing her and her remaining friends. Escaping at last from the catacombs, Victoria returns to the airport in a taxi and repeats a voice-over line which started the film.