Feisty girl Judy Moody sets out to have the most thrilling summer of her life. However, her parents are traveling to California to assist Judy's grandparents, meaning Judy and her brother Stink are looked after by their aunt Opal, who they have never met. Judy organizes a contest with her friends to see who can have the most exciting summer by earning "thrill points". When vacation begins, her friends leave, except for Frank. Amy is going to Borneo and Rocky is going to circus camp, so Judy tries to top them. However, Frank ruins all her plans by knocking her off a tight rope, vomiting all over her on a roller coaster, and leaving the movie theater in the middle of a scary movie. After Judy's ideas go wrong, she decides to stay in her room for the rest of the summer, until she hears the newscast in front of her house.  Judy's friends send her pictures of their summers. Meanwhile, she hears that Stink is going to be on the news, because of his search for Bigfoot. Judy attempts to be part of the story, but the camera crew stop the cameras from filming her.  Judy tries to pair up with Stink in the search for Bigfoot. One day, while Judy and Stink are out, they see Bigfoot walking down the street. They try to chase him, but he jumps inside an ice cream van. The two end up being members of Zeke's Bigfoot search club, and get into the van with them. They continue to chase after Bigfoot, but the news van hurries and jumps in front of them. Judy and the others drive around them, and end up finding them in the Fun Zone, an old amusement park. Bigfoot and the ice cream van driver (discovered to be Mr. Todd) get out of the van. They find out that Bigfoot really is Zeke in disguise, and that he was helping Mr. Todd sell ice cream. As a prize for finding Mr. Todd, Judy gets two front row seat tickets for the circus. Judy ends up participating in a circus act with Rocky's family.  Aunt Opal is about to leave, but before she leaves, she and Judy go put hats on lions, and she gets more thrill points. Judy says that Aunt Opal helped her get the most thrill points. Aunt Opal tells Judy that next year, she is planning on wrapping the whole Eiffel Tower with 10,000 scarves and wants Judy to help her. Judy and Stink receive money for Stink's Bigfoot statue getting touched by the neighborhood.