In Saint Augustine, Louisiana, Josie is left at the altar by her fiancé Liam to pursue fame and fortune. Eight years later, he is a successful country singer.   The day after a concert in New Orleans, Liam, after a one night stand wakes up to discover the girl he slept with jumping excitedly, unaware she is on his beat up cell phone. Panicked, he takes the phone to a store where the manager fixes it for him. Afterwards, the manager asks why he still has the phone, Liam revealing it has a very important message on it.   While watching TV, Liam learns that Mason, one of his groomsmen from the wedding and his best friend from childhood, has been killed in a car accident. So, he returns to St. Augustine to attend Mason's funeral. Although Liam attempts to be discreet, Josie recognizes him. After the burial, she approaches him and punches him in the stomach.  Liam stays with his father, Pastor Brian, although his father is bitter that he never kept in contact after becoming famous. While reacquainting himself with the town, he encounters Josie at her flower shop. Liam learns that she has a seven-year old daughter, Billy, and that he is the father. Josie confesses that she found out she was pregnant two weeks after he left her at the altar.   Although Josie tried to contact him, Liam never returned her call, so she decided that if he didn't care enough to call her back to find out what was so important, then she wasn't going to contact him again because she and Billy deserve better.   Liam is also surprised to learn that his father also tried to tell him that Josie was pregnant with their daughter at one of his concerts seven years ago. However, Liam was so absorbed in his fame & intoxicated that he rudely dismissed and didn’t listen to him. Liam eventually persuades Josie to let him spend time with Billy, albeit on Josie's terms. Billy quickly realizes Liam is her father, much to Josie's surprise, and supports Liam's idea.  Liam and Billy bond, with her also displaying musical ability. Josie even agrees to let her stay the night with him. As Liam tucks her in, Billy asks him why he left her mom. He admits he was young and confused, although he regrets his decision, which Josie and Brian overhear.   After Billy falls asleep, Josie asks Liam out saying she wants to have a date with "the Liam Page" as she'd never experienced his fame with him. He flies her to New Orleans for their date & when they are briefly questioned by the press asking who Josie is, he answers "She's The One".  After returning to Saint Augustine, Liam and Billy continue to bond. She chokes on her lunch, but he doesn't realise, then is frozen after having a flashback to his mother’s death. Jake, Josie’s brother, saves Billy. Distraught that he froze, Liam gets drunk at a bar. Jake comes to find him, telling him that Josie and Billy would be better off without him.   While bandaging Liam’s wound that night from punching a mirror, Brian reveals to Liam that when his mother died, he was so absorbed in his own grief that he overlooked Liam’s and apologizes to him for it. He tells Liam that he thinks being famous and never contacting him was a way for him to deal with the grief of his mother’s death, to which he agrees. Liam leaves the next morning without telling Josie or Billy, leaving a note for his Dad telling him that they are better off without him.  Liam returns to his tour and performs in London. However, his manager Sam inspires him to return to his family. At the airport, Liam responds to the message on the answering machine that Josie left for him 8 years earlier, explaining that losing his mother caused him to fear losing her, and so flee. He returns to Saint Augustine and meets with Josie.   Liam and Josie get married and Liam plays a song on stage with Billy, first at the child's school talent show, and then during his musical tour in Berlin.