Marieme (Karidja Touré) is a 16-year-old African-French teenager living in a poor Paris suburb. Marieme struggles academically, which forces her into a vocational track where she will learn a trade. Due to her mother's long working hours, Marieme's abusive brother is effectively in charge of the household.  On her way out of school, the day she found out about vocational school, she is approached by a gang of girls. Lady (Assa Sylla) who is the leader of the group, and her followers, Fily (Marietou Toure), and Adiatou (Lindsay Karamoh), ask Marieme if she wants to join them for a day in the city centre.  They wear leather jackets, gold jewelry, and have pin straight hair. Marieme initially declines but, after seeing the girls approached by a group of boys, including her brother's friend, Ismaël (Idrissa Diabate) whom she has a crush on, Marieme joins them.  The girls fight, intimidate and steal from others but love and support each other. Marieme and the girls grow close and she eventually begins to act and dress just like them. After committing theft, the girls pay for a hotel room, steal dresses, drink alcohol, do drugs, lip sync to "Diamonds" by Rihanna, and dance all night long. At the hotel, Lady encourages Marieme to ignore her abusive older brother's phone calls and gives her a gold necklace with the name Vic for Victory.  Lady sets up a fight with a girl in a rival group. Lady is beaten, and has her shirt torn off which is viewed as a disgrace. Due to her loss, her father cuts all of her hair off and makes her keep her distance from the group. Vic/Marieme wants to prove to herself, as well as Lady, that she has the strength to beat their rival. Vic wins the battle by ripping the girl's shirt off and cutting her bra, leaving her topless. Both Lady and Vic's brother express their pride.  Vic is physically assaulted by her brother when he finds out she slept with Ismaël, so she leaves home and starts to work for Abou, a local drug dealer. Vic lives in an apartment with Monica, a prostitute also working for Abou, and sells drugs in a gang of young men. She wears dresses, makeup and a blonde wig while selling at parties, but otherwise binds her breasts and wears loose baggy clothing. When her boyfriend discovers she has been binding her breasts, they fight.  Afterwards, Vic goes to a party at Abou's place where she shares a tender moment dancing with Monica. Abou approaches and tries to kiss her, but she tells him no and pushes him away.  Vic goes to Ismaël's place to tell him she's done with Abou and he offers to let her stay at his place and marry her. Vic refuses, telling him she doesn't want that kind of life. She attempts to go back home, but when she is buzzed in, she cannot bring herself to enter. Vic cries for a moment, regains her resolve and, with a determined look on her face, walks away.