Chicago Pulaski Jones is a young championship dancer and choreographer from Chicago who has recently been hired to work at his uncle Daddy J's club in Hollybank. While at the club, he reunites with a childhood friend and singer, Chaka. When his uncle is murdered by his nemesis, Pretty-Eyed Willy, for refusing to sell his club, Chicago swears vengeance. His initial attempt is unsuccessful, as he is only beaten senseless by Pretty-Eyed Willy's men. Before they can do any further damage the men are stopped by an elderly martial arts expert, Julius Ho, however Chicago is assumed to be dead. Pretty-Eyed Willy then takes over Daddy J's club and forces Chaka to sing for him.  Julius takes Chicago into his home and begins teaching him kung-fu so he can defeat Pretty-Eyed Willy, a former student of Julius. He is unable to teach Chicago traditional kung fu, however Julius notices that his dance moves are nearly identical to the martial art. Julius tests Chicago, who is able to block every move. His only weakness is that he can only fight if there is music playing. Julius later fights one of Pretty-Eyed Willy's men, but is stabbed in the process. Chicago manages to defeat the man since there is music playing and comforts a dying Julius, who tells him that there is music all around him.  Chicago goes off in search of Pretty-Eyed Willy, who by this point is aware that Chicago is still alive. He is successful in defeating several of Pretty-Eyed Willy's goons, but is taken down by a crack addict who alerts the boss to Chicago's capture. Before Pretty-Eyed Willy can arrive, Chicago manages to escape after hearing some faint music. He continues his search for Pretty-Eyed Willy and beats up several of his fighters, during which the villain learns of Chicago's weakness.  Chicago manages to find Pretty-Eyed Willy, who has kidnapped Chaka and knocked her out. This angers Chicago, but he is unable to fight due to a lack of music. He is knocked to the ground by Pretty-Eyed Willy and falls unconscious. While he is out, Chicago recalls Julius's words and realizes that the sounds of the world around him make a musical beat. This allows him to fight and ultimately defeat Pretty-Eyed Willy. The film ends with Chicago becoming a couple with Chaka and running his uncle's club. Pretty-Eyed Willy is shown in the morgue. He is resurrected but is confused as to why he is naked.