Best childhood friends Bridget Vreeland, Lena Kaligaris, Tibby Rollins, and Carmen Lowell have completed their first year of college and will spend their summer apart.  Bridget discovers her father had hidden letters from her grandmother Greta and doesn't accept that it was to protect her. She goes to Turkey to participate in an archaeological dig under Professor Nasrin Mehani. Finding remains of a woman who died at the same age as Bridget's mother saddens her.  After reading her grandmother's letters, Bridget leaves the dig to visit her in Alabama. She learns her mother, who committed suicide, had denied having depression or any mental issues at all. Not allowing anyone into her life who challenged this or got her help, Bridget's father went along with it. But Greta could not, and moved away because her daughter wouldn't accept help.  Greta tells Bridget her mother was sick and her suicide was not her father's fault, saying she is 'stronger' than her so will not be sick like her. Bridget thinks her mother should have stayed alive for her sake and feels unloved/ abandoned. Greta says that her mother's love for Bridget is why she hung on as long as she did. It allows Bridget to later reconcile with her father.  While mourning the death of her grandfather Bapi in Greece, Lena meets her ex-boyfriend Kostas, who reveals he is married and expecting a baby with his wife. Lena returns to the Rhode Island School of Design and begins dating Leo, the model for her life class. Kostas comes to see her, revealing that his marriage was annulled after his wife revealed that she had lied about being pregnant. Lena forgives him but refuses to take him back because she says they have changed. However, after spending time with Leo, she realizes they are incompatible and she still cares for Kostas.  Tibby works at a video store in New York while retaking a screenwriting class at New York University that requires her to finish her script. While having sex with her boyfriend Brian, the condom breaks. Afraid that she might be pregnant, Tibby withdraws from everyone. Breaking up with Brian, she reluctantly gives Lena's younger sister Effie permission to date him, despite the age difference.  Lena brings Tibby a requested pregnancy test, but she gets her period before needing it. Tibby drives to Vermont, hoping for Carmen's support, but leaves after they argue over who ignores whom more. She goes to Brian's and apologizes, confessing she had been afraid of dealing with change. Realizing he still loves Tibby, he breaks up with Effie.  Carmen attends an actor workshop in Vermont, prompted by fellow Yale student and friend Julia. During auditions for The Winter's Tale, Ian, an actor, encourages Carmen to try out. She ultimately wins the part of Perdita, causing Julia to become envious. Carmen grows more confident when her talent is seen by the director Bill and the other actors, including Ian, with whom she begins a flirtatious friendship.  One night, Julia says she is going on a date with Ian, upsetting Carmen and causing her to falter in rehearsals. When her mother Christina goes into labor early, Carmen reconciles with Tibby and asks her to help. Ian comforts Carmen, revealing he only went out with Julia because she begged.  Carmen overhears Julia tell Bill to replace her saying she doesn’t have what it takes, but he refuses. Regaining her confidence, she performs successfully, and kisses Ian after the play. While packing to leave, she chastises Julia for her backstabbing, ending their friendship.  Effie, upset with Brian breaking up with her and how Lena seems to love her friends more than her own sister, steals the Pants and loses them in Greece while visiting her grandmother. Bridget, Lena, Tibby, and Carmen disagree if the Pants are worth saving, so Lena travels to Greece to look for them.  Discovering from Effie that Lena refused to take Kostas back when he visited her in Rhode Island, the other three follow with Carmen's stepdad's almost expired frequent flier miles to help search for the Pants and convince Lena to give Kostas a second chance. Lena sees Kostas and he says he has a place to study at the London School of Economics, but they part. Later, Lena looks for Kostas on his boat and they kiss.  Although they do not find the Pants, the summer ends in Greece with the four friends renewing their mutual commitment to each other.