A drifter named Paul and his dog, Abbie, make their way towards Mexico through the desert of the Old West in the early 1870s. They encounter Priest, a bandit and disgraced clergyman who tries to steal Paul's horse after claiming that his mule is about to give out on him, but Paul whistles and Abbie attacks the would-be robber. Paul takes Priest's ammunition and his water canteen, before pouring out a bottle of whiskey on the man's wounds and leaving.  Paul enters Denton, a former boomtown on its last legs. In the tavern, Paul meets Gilly, an obnoxious and cocky young man who issues a challenge to fight when Paul threatens him. Gilly approaches Abbie to coax Paul outside, and Paul drops him with a single punch. As Gilly's fiancée Ellen rushes to his aid, Paul heads to the inn, where he meets Ellen's younger sister Mary-Anne. She thanks him for standing up to Gilly and draws Paul and Abbie a bath. U.S. Marshal Clyde Martin, Gilly's father, meets Paul in the inn. Clyde assured Paul that he knows Gilly provoked him but that won't tolerate an assault on one of his deputies. After identifying Paul as an ex-soldier, Clyde tells him to leave Denton in the morning. Mary-Anne gives Paul a picture to remember her by.  That night, Paul and Abbie are jumped by Gilly and Clyde's deputies Tubby, Roy, and Harris as they try to sleep. Gilly accuses Paul of being a deserter and shoots and stabs Abbie to death. He then has Roy and Harris push Paul off a nearby cliff, expecting the fall to kill him but not bothering to check. Paul wakes up the next day, buries Abbie and tells her that he is going to break his promise to her that he would never take another life. On his way back to town, Paul runs into Priest, and takes his mule and revolver.  In Denton, Mary-Anne shelters Paul and offers help. She begs Paul to take her away after he gets revenge, as she has no future in Denton. He refuses, telling her that he abandoned his wife and daughter to enlist in the army and could not bear to see them again after the atrocities he committed. At the hotel, Paul slits Roy's throat as he is bathing. Clyde is alerted to the situation and realizes what Gilly did. He has Harris lock up the jailhouse arsenal and station himself on the roof while Gilly guards the hotel. Gilly accuses Mary-Anne of aiding Paul and while arguing Ellen reveals to Gilly that she is pregnant with his child.  Paul ambushes Harris and forces him to fire on Clyde and Tubby as they make their way to the jailhouse; neither man is hit, but Paul then grabs Harris's rifle, kills him, and throws his body into the street. Inside the jailhouse, upset at the deaths of Roy and Harris, Tubby throws down his gun and starts arguing with Clyde. Paul shoots Tubby in the back through a window. Clyde agrees to disarm himself and surrender so he and Paul can talk. Gilly then comes out of the hotel to kill Paul, but Clyde gets between them to try and negotiate. Gilly and Paul shoot at each other with Clyde between them, fatally wounding him in the process.  Paul, wounded and out of ammunition, hides in a nearby stable. When Gilly enters, Paul slips a noose over his head and attempts to hang him before dropping him still breathing to the ground after his injuries kick in. Paul then resorts to beating Gilly with his own boot. As a blood-covered Gilly draws his knife, Mary-Anne appears and shoots him in the back with Tubby's gun. Mary-Anne and Paul make their way back to the inn, while a guilt-ridden Ellen finds Gilly's body. Priest wanders back into Denton and Paul tells him that he should stay, because "we could all use a little saving."