In the wilderness of Oregon, a prairie dog screams after Riggs drives past and throws a cigar at it while talking to Lyman Enterprise CEO Neal Lyman on the phone while planning to check up on co-worker Dan Sanders. This causes a raccoon to signal a mink to release a boulder that pushes Riggs' car to the edge of a cliff, teetering back and forth. After that, the raccoon throws the cigar back to Riggs who yells "You're a bad raccoon!". The raccoon then blows the car down the cliff. Riggs is then heard calling up Lyman to tell him that he quits.  Dan Sanders is a real estate developer from Chicago and nature lover who meets with Lyman who gives Dan the task of turning the forest of Rocky Springs into a residential development after Riggs' instant resignation. This all transpires much to the objections of Dan's son Tyler and wife Tammy who are unhappy in Rocky Springs while missing their lives in Chicago.  Unfortunately for Dan, the animals who are led by the raccoon refuse to sit back and watch their forest being destroyed. They manage to turn the tables on him by disturbing his progress, interrupting his meetings, and humiliating him. Upon receiving some research from his love interest Amber, Tyler tells his father that Rocky Springs is a forest reserve where he warns his father that "many have tried to settle Rocky Springs but they all failed." Following an attack by a grizzly bear that traps him in a tipped over portable toilet, Dan signs orders to have a drill sergeant capture and cage all the animals.  Meanwhile, Tammy is forced to plan an "eco-friendly" fair with a senile teacher Mrs. Martin at the high school which is sponsored by Lyman Enterprises, unaware of Lyman's plans to cut down the forest to build houses and a shopping mall "with a forest theme". Figuring this out and the fact that Neal lied about planning to send the animals to a nature preserve, Dan decides to set the animals free. Once released, the raccoon and his friends immediately wreak havoc on the eco-fair, causing the guests and entertainers to flee while Mrs. Martin (who doesn't seem to give a care about what's going on around her) talks to an owl.  Lyman accidentally tranquilizes the sponsor for the construction named Mr. Gupta after he attempted to break their deal. He flees into a worm tunnel with the animals in close pursuit. The animals begin attacking him as the bear drives a golf cart, pulling the tunnel away into the forest. After some convincing from Amber and Tammy, Tyler finally tells his father that he loves him.  Three months later, the forest is reclaimed as a nature preserve with Dan working as a park ranger. The poster promoting the forest preservation also states that anyone who violates the rules will be fined $1 million.  During the credits, the humans and animals dance to the Transcenders version of "Insane in the Brain."