Violet (Olivia Munn) works as the head of production for a film company and is incredibly successful. However due to a perpetual voice in her head (Justin Theroux) she finds herself deeply insecure.  The Voice (a male one, representing Violet's negative thoughts) consistently guides Violet's career and personal decisions and discourages her from confiding in her friends. When Violet runs into Martin Woods, her ex-boyfriend of seven years ago, The Voice tells her that Martin finds her stupid and encourages her to insult him to level the playing field.  Later on, at work, Violet's boss, Tom Gaines, compliments her on her work and recalls a project she had worked on earlier, Fox Run, an experimental film based on a book of poetry. When Violet opens up about what she loves about the project he initially seems receptive, but later uses the information to denigrate her, revealing he will never back the film.  Violet later confides to her childhood friend Red she is afraid of doing things wrong as it leaves her feeling unsafe and he encourages her to make mistakes.  Violet begins defying The Voice. She reaches out to Martin to apologize for being rude to him and he forgives her and also apologizes for his role in their breakup. She decides to ignore the calls from the powerful film executive she had been seeing and begins a relationship with Red.  When Tom Gaines humiliates Violet at work by revealing that she was sleeping with the executive, Violet pushes back telling him she is responsible for the success of his company. When he fires her, she immediately reaches out to financiers she knows who are looking to expand into production, and is able to become their President of Production. The new company is enthusiastic about Fox Run and Violet works to make it her next film.  Just as things seem to be going well for Violet, she learns that her estranged mother has died. While she initially books a flight to go to the funeral, Violet realizes that there is no reason to go back, as the majority of her family is cruel and abusive towards her.  Violet's brother calls her to confront her for missing the funeral, and she finally cuts him off. The Voice tells Violet she will be alone forever and then die. Violet realizes the voice is lying; she is finally free.