Estranged from her family, Kazu "Zu" Gamble is a newly sober drug dealer, who is left as the sole guardian of her younger, nonverbal autistic half-sister, Music, following the death of their grandmother, Millie, who raised Music. Zu deals drugs with the help of her friend Rudy but is unable to pay him back as she is unemployed. One morning, Music has a meltdown when Zu is unable to braid her hair. Her neighbor, Ebo, comes to help calm Music, and Zu and Ebo form a friendship. Zu learns that Ebo is a boxer who teaches children boxing, one of them being Felix, who lives opposite Music and is often seen watching her (he dislikes boxing but is forced to do it by his father). Zu learns how to take care of Music with Ebo's help, but continues to deal drugs to financially support her dream to move to Costa Rica.  Ebo reveals to Zu that his ex-wife left him for his brother, and she promises to accompany him to their wedding. Rudy asks Zu to deliver HIV medication to a buyer, later revealed to be Ebo. When Zu and Music go for a walk, Zu becomes distracted, and Music is stung by a bee. She suffers an allergic reaction and is hospitalized. Zu cannot pay for the treatment, and she has left her bag in the park, containing the drugs for the pop star. Distressed, Zu begins drinking and suffers a relapse. She is involved in a brawl with Ebo's neighbor, and the police are called; she reveals that she is on probation. The same night, Felix's parents get into a physical altercation which results in his father accidentally killing Felix when he tries to intervene.  After some time passing, Ebo, without Zu, attends his brother's wedding. Meanwhile, Zu brings Music to an adoption center but is unable to bring herself to leave her there. They decide to join Ebo at the wedding, where Zu and Ebo share a kiss on stage, and prepare to sing. Music interrupts and begins to sing herself. Later on, Music is given a new support dog, one that Felix had arranged for her prior to his death.  Throughout the film, musical dance sequences take place inside Music's mind, showing how she views the world.