Johnny Wayne (Clint Browning) is an ex-racer who serves 5 years in prison after crippling a young boy during an illegal street race in Los Angeles. Wayne, having been traumatised by the events, vows to never race again, and is soon released as a reformed citizen. Whilst Johnny attempts to restore his life and become an honest, hardworking member of society, his parole officer has other plans for him.  Johnny finds himself being blackmailed into street racing by his parole officer and the taunts of his former street racing associates.  Johnny is given a job at a wrecking yard, owned by Red.  Johnny and Red get off to a rocky start but end up becoming friends.  Red teaches Johnny how to improve his racing skill. Johnny is assigned to volunteer community service as part of his parole and he winds up working at a rehabilitation facility where a boy, Danny/Daniel (Connor Herlong), crippled 5 years earlier in a car accident, gets his physical therapy as he tries to relearn to walk.   Danny and his older sister take a liking to Johnny.  Johnny inspires Danny to give maximum effort to his physical therapy and Danny progresses.   Johnny slowly comes to the realization that Danny is the boy he crippled in the wreck he caused 5 years earlier but does not know how to tell Danny and his sister.  Danny's father sees Johnny at the rehabilitation facility, goes ballistic and reveals the truth to all.  Danny's sister confronts Johnny about the hardship he has placed on Danny and his family, who struggle to make ends meet with staggering medical bills.  Johnny ends up racing his former friend/now rival Mickey Styles (Jason Ellefson) for the title of the ultimate street racer of Los Angeles and $10k.  The crooked  parole officer bets against Johnny and instructs Johnny to lose or he will violate his parole and harm Danny and his family.   Johnny wins the race and $10k which he donates to Danny. The crooked parole officer gets his just reward when he is hit by street racers and killed.