Cassie Thomas, a 30-year-old medical school dropout, lives with her parents and works at a coffee shop. Years earlier, her classmate Al Monroe sexually assaulted her best friend Nina Fisher, leading to Nina's suicide. There was no investigation by the school nor consequences from the legal system. Cassie now spends her nights feigning drunkenness in clubs and bars, allowing men to take her to their homes before revealing her sobriety if they try to take advantage of her. A former classmate, Ryan Cooper, asks Cassie out at her cafe job. He mentions that Al is getting married. Cassie begins plotting revenge.  Ryan returns to the cafe and tells Cassie she gave him a fake number. He convinces her to give him a real chance. Cassie meets with former classmate and friend Madison McPhee, who continues to deny Nina was raped. Cassie pretends to drink while Madison gets drunk and hires a man to take her to a hotel room. With no memory of what happened, Madison leaves several distraught voicemails for Cassie, who does not reply.  Cassie next targets Elizabeth Walker, the medical school dean who dismissed Nina's case citing lack of evidence. Cassie lures Elizabeth's teenage daughter Amber into her car by posing as a makeup artist for a popular band. Later, Cassie meets Elizabeth under the pretense of resuming her education and questions her about Nina's case. When Elizabeth justifies her actions, Cassie tells her she dropped Amber off at a dorm with drunk male students. A terrified Elizabeth apologizes for her inaction, and Cassie reveals Amber is safe at a diner.  Cassie forgets to meet Ryan for a date, to his disappointment. That night, she attempts to lure another man into taking her home. As they are walking out of the bar, they run into an emotionally hurt Ryan. Cassie visits Jordan Green, Al's lawyer, who harassed Nina and made her drop charges. Jordan is remorseful and on leave from practicing law after a nervous breakdown over all of the women he has harmed through his work. After hearing this, Cassie retracts her initial plan of exacting revenge and forgives him. Nina's mother urges her to move on, resulting in Cassie abandoning her revenge plans. She also apologizes to Ryan and they pursue their relationship.  Madison confronts Cassie outside her house, desperate to know what happened after their lunch. Cassie assures her the man simply took her to a hotel room and tucked her into bed. Madison admits understanding Nina's situation and gives Cassie an old phone containing a video of Nina's rape before warning her never to contact her again. In the video, Cassie sees Ryan present at the party and do nothing to stop Al. She confronts Ryan at his office and he insists that he was young and too drunk to remember. Cassie threatens to release the video unless he tells her where Al's bachelor party is being held. Ryan tells her and disingenuously begs for forgiveness while shrugging off his own culpability.  Cassie arrives at the bachelor party posing as a stripper. She drugs the partygoers and takes Al upstairs, handcuffs him to a bed, and reveals her identity. As she threatens to carve Nina's name into his chest with a scalpel, Al breaks one hand free and suffocates her with a pillow. The next morning, Al's best friend Joe insists Cassie's death was not his fault and helps him burn Cassie's body in the woods. Her parents file a missing persons report and the police begin to investigate. Cassie's father mentions that it isn't entirely unlike Cassie to disappear. Ryan tells a detective Cassie was mentally disturbed and likely to harm herself. He does not tell them she was going to Al's bachelor party.  At Al's wedding, Ryan receives several scheduled texts from Cassie. Jordan receives a package from Cassie with the phone containing the video of Nina's rape, and instructions to follow if she does not return from the bachelor party. Gail, Cassie's manager and friend, finds one half of a heart-shaped necklace with Cassie's name under the cash register; Cassie was wearing the matching half with Nina's name when she was killed. The police discover the matching half with her burnt remains and arrest Al for her murder during his wedding reception as Ryan receives a final text from Cassie, signed with her and Nina's names.