Doug Martin (Nick Jonas) is a young adult spending the summer with his parents at their lake house. When rich investment banker Elliot Harper (Dermot Mulroney) moves in next door, Doug finds himself immediately drawn to Elliot's young wife, Lena Harper (Isabel Lucas). Elliot hires Doug to work on his sailboat, and this gives Doug an excuse to interact with Lena, who is often alone due to Elliot traveling for business. Eventually Lena and Doug begin an affair, starting with Doug losing his virginity to Lena. Lena gets them pre-paid cellphones to communicate on, and constantly warns Doug about Elliot's possessive and jealous nature. Lena also shows signs of physical abuse, which she says are from Elliot.  One night Lena calls Doug over to her house, where he finds Elliot dead on the floor. Lena claims he attacked her and she accidentally killed him when she fought back. After some major trepidation on Doug's part, Lena convinces him to help her cover up her part in Elliot's death. Soon after, an insurance investigator named Angie Alvarez (Kandyse McClure) shows up to investigate Elliot's death, due to the large settlement of 10 million dollars Lena is now set to receive from his life insurance. Suspicion quickly falls on Doug, and he grows nervous from the increased attention on him by both Angie and the town Sheriff (Paul Sorvino). Eventually he realizes that Lena has been manipulating him the whole time, intending to frame him for Elliot's murder; she claims that instead of a consensual affair Doug had been stalking her and raped her, and then killed Elliot in a jealous rage. Doug's attempts to prove his innocence are thwarted at every turn, presumably by Lena. For example, a gardener of the Harpers who had seen Doug and Lena together turns up murdered before the police can talk to him.  With the police ready to arrest him and with Lena having received the insurance money, Doug follows her to a hotel she is at with Angie, intending to retrieve one of the pre-paid cellphones he and Lena used from her person for evidence. It is there that Doug realizes that Angie is actually Lena's lover and has been her accomplice since the beginning. At first it seems that Lena will leave Doug to take the rap, however in a last gesture of love she decides to leave Doug the cell phone, which contains the exonerating evidence he needs. Angie and Lena flee the country on a private plane.  In the closing voice-over, Doug explains how he was eventually sent to prison, but on reduced charges for a short period of time. Lena and Angie are still on the run. He contemplates if he would do it all over again.