Phil, his wife, and their two children Barbara and Billy live with their dog, a Great Dane by the name of Marmaduke. The film opens at Billy's birthday party. Marmaduke takes a cannonball dive from the second floor of the family home into the backyard pool, releasing a giant tidal wave. Barbara records it on her phone and the video goes viral. It comes to the attention of a world-renowned dog trainer, Guy, who offers to transform Marmaduke into a world-class show dog. At first, the family isn’t sure about Marmaduke entering dog competitions. When Phil learns there is a one million dollar top prize, he’s persuaded to make an agreement. Marmaduke goes into training and, after some initial resistance, starts to make progress.  Guy enters Marmaduke into a local dog show to test his skills. During the preliminary setup, Marmaduke encounters an Afghan hound named Zeus. Zeus entices Marmaduke to eat prior to the competition, making him bloated. Marmaduke does his best to conceal the matter and struts onto the field with Guy. Before one lap around the field, Marmaduke releases voluminous clouds of noxious flatus which envelopes the entire field. He soars through the air and lands backside down in the winner’s trophy and defecates in it, much to the horror of everyone.  Disgraced, Guy refuses to keep training Marmaduke. Deflated and dejected, Marmaduke runs away from home. As he runs down the street, he sees the family cat, King Tut, in the middle of an intersection. Marmaduke saves the cat but has difficulty connecting with his character. Persuaded by King Tut, Marmaduke embarks on a trip around the world, performing heroic stunts along the way. His circumnavigation convinces Guy to take Marmaduke back on track for the World Dog Championship. Marmaduke encounters Zeus again at the competition with many other dog breeds. The competition consists of three challenges, but right after Marmaduke passes the second challenge, he lands on Guy, who is hospitalized. Without a trainer, his owners end up stepping in to coach him, allowing him to tackle the final challenge.  In the third and final challenge, the dogs perform a unique act, with Marmaduke and Billy doing a cowboy act with King Tut, pleasing the audience. Later, the judge's final results reveal Zeus as the winner. However, Marmaduke uncovers that Zeus' owner rigged the scores, leading Zeus to be disqualified and resulting in the Zen-powered Japanese Chin Zhi taking the top prize. Zeus tries to take back the trophy, but Marmaduke stops him. He ends up knocking over a platform where a cameraman sits, causing Marmaduke to push his owners out of the way, getting crushed by the platform when saving the cameraman's life. Marmaduke is initially believed to be dead, but it is revealed that he is still alive, and he and his family live happily ever after. During the mid-credits scene, Zeus gets caught by security and is sent to the dog pound to get his fur shaved. As for Henri and his twin, they are arrested and put to jail.