Daniel J. Jones, a Senate staffer, is selected by Senator Dianne Feinstein to lead an investigation into the 2005 destruction of CIA interrogation videotapes. Jones' small team of six begins work in early 2009 reviewing six million pages of CIA materials in a SCIF.  The narrative shifts back to the September 11 attacks of 2001, introducing George Tenet, Bernadette, and Gretchen at the Counterterrorist Center (CTC), anxiously watching live videos of the attacks. At CIA headquarters a few days later, Tenet reports on his meeting at Camp David with President George W. Bush and CTC director Cofer Black. John Rizzo, the CIA's legal counsel, reports that the President had given the CIA powers to "capture and detain suspected terrorists." The next year, intelligence psychologists Bruce Jessen and James Elmer Mitchell are contracted to instruct the CIA in enhanced interrogation techniques (EITs).  Jones meets with FBI agent Ali Soufan and learns more about the CIA's interrogation program, particularly regarding Abu Zubaydah. The interrogation of Abu Zubaydah is shown, contrasting the FBI's approach with the CIA's enhanced interrogation techniques. Bernadette is present as a witness. Soufan says they kept Zubaydah alive and gathered crucial intelligence in the days before the CIA took over the interrogations. The CIA disagreed on techniques and results.  Jones briefs Senator Feinstein in her office, providing the evidence from the CIA's own records proving that the CIA knew Zubaydah was not a high-ranking member of al-Qaeda, as they had falsely reported to the Department of Justice (DOJ). After the CIA told President Bush that Zubaydah was a key player, they received authorization in an August 2002 CIA memo to torture Zubaydah, making him the first detainee to be tortured.  Raymond Nathan, a physician assistant with the Office of Medical Services, secretly meets with Jones and tells him that he and others had wanted to leave the service because of the use of torture. He witnessed the waterboarding of Zubaydah, who almost drowned and who lost consciousness during the procedure. Nathan tells Jones that they were told by Director Jose Rodriguez to not put their complaints in writing.  Jones and April uncover the story of Gul Rahman, who died from hypothermia in 2002 after CIA interrogators left him chained to the ground overnight in a 36ʡF (2ʡC) cell. Jones meets with Feinstein and her staffer Marcy Morris to inform them about the CIA Inspector General's report of the incident. Jones also deduces that the National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice had been told to not inform the President about Office of Legal Counsel staffer John Yoo's 2002 memo containing narrower redefinitions of torture and enhanced interrogation techniques; President Bush only learned about it four years later in April 2006.  Jones finds the Panetta Review, a harshly critical internal CIA review of the EIT practices prepared in 2009 but never shared, among the files provided by the CIA.The Panetta Review was a secret review of the use of torture by the CIA under the administration of George W. Bush, which was conducted by then CIA director Leon Panetta, who served under President Obama as CIA director from February 19, 2009, until June 30, 2011. According to a March 7, 2014, New York Times article, the review yielded a series of memoranda that "cast a particularly harsh light" on the Bush-era interrogation program." While watching TV at a bar after work, April, Julian, and Jones become discouraged as they watch a broadcast claiming that torture had yielded good intelligence and prevented terrorist attacks. Jones stays up all night to disprove the media's claims; the CIA's own records show that crucial information it claimed to have obtained by subjecting Khalid Sheikh Mohammad aka "KSM" to torture had already been obtained beforehand.  Through flashbacks, we see Mitchell and Jessen waterboard Mohammad in March 2003. Mitchell complains that when tortured, Muhammad lies to avoid more torture. Bernadette, who is witnessing from another room, admits they have a problem. Gretchen decides that the torture will continue.   On April 21, 2004, President Bush denounces the use of torture on an address to the United Nations. Tenet, Bernadette, Mitchell, Jessen, Thomas Eastman, Jose Rodriguez, and John Rizzo meet to discuss how to respond. Jack Goldsmith, the OLC's new head, had repudiated and withdrawn the Torture Memos. Mitchell gives an impassioned speech in defense of his methods and Rodriguez has the program re-certified.  Jones finishes the 6,200-page report and the report is approved by the Senate Intelligence Committee, chaired by Senator Feinstein, on December 13, 2012, and sent to the CIA for final comments. However, two months later, John Brennan is sworn in as the new Director of the CIA. Brennan tells Jones and Senator Feinstein that he disagrees with many parts of the report and will not allow it to be published. Jones and Senator Feinstein sit down for a series of meetings with CIA representatives, who raise several objections to key findings in the report, such as the fact that the psychologists, Mitchell and Jessen, were unqualified to be offering advice on interrogation techniques, but were nevertheless paid $81 million of taxpayer money for their efforts.  Frustrated, Jones reveals some of the contents of the Panetta Review to Senator Mark Udall of the Intelligence Committee. Senator Udall confronts Caroline Krass during a December 17, 2013 Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on Krass' nomination to the position of CIA General Counsel, stating that he "was more confident than ever of the accuracy of the committee's 6,300 page study," and was confident in its consistency with the CIA's internal reviews, thereby revealing the existence of the Panetta Review, and highlighting the fact that the CIA's protestations (against the Senate's report) directly contradict the conclusions of the CIA's own internal Panetta Review, which agrees with the report. Meanwhile, Jones, who is fearful that the CIA will attempt to destroy all copies of the Panetta Review like they destroyed the interrogation videotapes, secretly moves a copy of a portion of the review into a safe in the Senate Hart Building.   The CIA, humiliated by Udall's revelation, conducts a search of Jones' workspace in violation of the agreement between the Senate and the CIA and threatens to prosecute Jones for "stealing" the Panetta Review from the CIA's computers. Jones' lawyer, Cyrus Clifford, advises him that he does not have a legal problem, but a "sunlight" or transparency problem. Jones meets with a  New York Times reporter and suggests he look into the CIA break-in and theft at the Senate Intelligence Committee's closed facilities. Jones is careful to provide the reporter with no details. When the Times article is published, Jones is called into a meeting with Morris and Senator Feinstein, who is visibly angry with him, but who ultimately makes a speech supporting him and formally accusing the CIA of unlawfully searching the Senate's computers in violation of the separation of powers. Brennan and the CIA are forced to back down.  Senator Feinstein tells Jones that she is prepared to publish a shorter summary of the report, but President Obama grants the CIA broad authority to redact Jones' report. Jones points out, to no avail, that the CIA's proposed heavy redactions make many of the revelations detailed in the report impossible to read or follow. Faced with unrelenting blocks to the report's publication, Jones meets in an underground parking lot with the New York Times national security reporter, but ultimately decides not to leak the report to the media.  The Republicans, most of whom oppose the release of the report, win control of the Senate in the November 2014 midterm elections, meaning the report will likely be buried forever come January 2015, when the new Congress is sworn in. Faced with this deadline, the Senate finally agrees to release the redacted report. Senator Feinstein gives a speech summarizing the report and its implications, which is followed by real-life footage of an impassioned speech in support of the report delivered by Senator John McCain, who was tortured by his captors as a prisoner of war during the Vietnam War.  The film concludes with an epilogue, delivered through a series of intertitles, explaining that Jones left his job as a Senate staffer following the release of the report. It is also noted that no CIA officers were ever criminally charged in connection with the actions outlined in the report, that many were in fact promoted, and that one (an allusion to Gina Haspel) later became director of the Agency.