The story is about a group of five single mothers with very different backgrounds who come together when their 11 to 12-year-old kids collectively get in trouble at their private school.  Hillary has three kids, her ex-husband refuses to pay child support because she has the house. Jan is an executive and struggles to hold on to her stressful publishing career. May is a journalist, aspires to be an author, has a drug-addict ex and a teenage son interested to know more about his dad. Esperanza hides her new boyfriend Manny from her ex-husband Santos because she fears she might lose his financial support. Lytia, a sassy waitress, tries to keep her youngest son from falling into a life of crime.  Lytia rushes out of her diner with her two kids to catch the bus, but misses it so Branson, a personal trainer interested in her, offers her a ride to a school meeting. May meets Jan about publishing her book, but Jan rejects it. May's car won't start so she asks T.K. to help, but leaves her purse behind while rushing to the meeting.  At the meeting the principal tells the parents that their children vandalized the school and were caught smoking. The board wanted to expel them, but she asked for a probationary period for them. She asks the parents to volunteer for the fundraiser and school dance. The five agree to meet up later to organize.  After the meeting, T.K. brings May her purse and asks her out to dinner, but she declines. Esperanza goes to her daughter's birthday, where her ex gives his daughter a cell phone, which angers her as it undermines her parenting.  The five meet at Hillary's, Lytia arrives early and finds her distraught, as her ex took everything in the divorce and she had to fire the maid. In addition to organizing the dance, they decide to start The Single Mom's Club to support single mom's everywhere. Afterwards, each woman has her own drama: May picks her son up from school as his father never showed up, Jan didn't get the promotion she'd hoped for, Branson brings Lytia a funeral wreath because he likes her and T.K. read May's book and liked it, so they meet up for coffee to discuss it.  As the enchanted forest is the theme the group chose for the dance, Hillary asks her new neighbor, Peter to build the forest for it. The group decide to go out socially every week, so take turns watching each others kids. For an organized movie night, Hillary looks after the kids while Esperanza takes Manny, and May hooks Jan up with Tony, a friend from work. While at the movies May's son runs away and they cannot find him. Blowing up at everyone, May tells them to leave, severing ties with the group. T.K. stays at May's to comfort her. When her son finally comes home, he tells her he went to see his dad. He went by bus, and his dad robbed him for drugs. Upset, he wants to know why she hadn't told him he's an addict.  Esperanza goes to her ex's car dealership to confront him about undermining her and threatens to take him to court for more child support. By the end, all five women make up with their children, May finally decides to join the ladies at the school dance and The Single Mom's Club is back on.