Nolan Mack has worked at the same bank for almost 26 years in a life of monotony. He and his wife, Joy, have embraced their marriage as a convenient and comfortable distraction from facing reality. What starts as an aimless drive down an unfamiliar street turns into a life-altering decision for Nolan when he meets a troubled young hustler named Leo on his drive home from visiting his ailing father at a hospital.  Nolan begins to seek Leo out and spend time with him. As Nolan spends more time with Leo, he finds himself breaking from the confines of his old life and come to terms with who he really is. He begins to behave out of character, oversleeping, and missing important meetings.  Nolan attempts to help Leo escape the life of prostitution by getting him a job, which he fails to show up for. He also encourages him to return to school and offers to help him financially. One day, Leo shows up at Nolan's workplace asking for help. Nolan walks Leo out of the building and is confronted by Leo's pimp, demanding $3,200. During the conflict, the bank's patrons are observing Nolan, Leo and the pimp in the parking lot and someone calls the police. The police show up and escort the pimp away in handcuffs. Nolan then takes Leo back to his house, as his wife is out of town on business. Leo leaves the home sometime after Nolan falls asleep. Joy arrives home from her business trip early and wakes Nolan up.  Soon thereafter, Nolan and his wife are preparing to have dinner with the regional bank manager and the local branch manager regarding a potential promotion for Nolan. Prior to leaving for the dinner, Nolan receives a phone call and leaves. He tells Joy to go on to the dinner and that he'll meet her there. Nolan arrives at the hospital, where Leo is recovering from an overdose. Nolan is directed to Leo's room by a doctor, only to realize that Leo is no longer there. The hospital staff believe that Leo checked himself out and left. Nolan starts looking around town for Leo. He goes to his apartment and the place that they met, but he never finds him. While searching for Leo, Nolan has missed the business dinner. He decides to return home and arrives to find an angry Joy waiting for him. She asks why he never showed up and indicates that she knows Nolan is having an affair with a man. Nolan tells her that he wants to leave the marriage. Joy says that she would like to keep their life the same, while Nolan says that he's ready to live in the real world and stop pretending that he is someone that he is not.  Nolan packs up and quits his job, tells his best friend that he is moving to New York City, and meets a man, presumably on a date, in a cafe. Joy appears to move on as well, taking a cruise as she has always wanted to.