In Stockholm, journalist Mikael Blomkvist is recovering from the legal and professional fallout of a libel suit brought against him by businessman Hans-Erik Wennerström. The wealthy Henrik Vanger offers Blomkvist evidence against Wennerström in exchange for an unusual task: investigate the 40-year-old disappearance and presumed murder of Henrik's grandniece, 16-year-old Harriet.   Every year, Vanger receives a framed pressed flower, the type she always gave him on his birthday. He believes her killer is taunting him. Blomkvist moves into a cottage on the Vanger family estate on Hedestad Island and starts his investigation.  Lisbeth Salander is an asocial investigator and hacker who is antagonized by her state-appointed guardian Nils Bjurman. Bjurman controls Salander's finances and extorts sexual favors by threatening to have her institutionalized. In one meeting, Bjurman chains Salander to his bed and brutally rapes her, unaware his action is recorded. At their next meeting, Salander tasers Bjurman, binds him, rapes him with a dildo, and tattoos "I'm a rapist pig" across his chest. Using the recording she made, she blackmails him into giving her financial independence and ceasing contact with her.  Blomkvist explores the island and interviews Vanger's relatives, some of whom were Nazi sympathizers during World War II. He uncovers a list of names and numbers that are Bible verse references and recruits Salander as his research assistant. She discovers a connection between the list and young women brutally murdered from 1947 to 1967, indicating a serial killer. Many of the victims have Jewish names, making her theorize that the murders could have been motivated by antisemitism. One morning, Blomkvist finds the mutilated corpse of his cat on the doorstep. Another night, a bullet grazes his forehead; after Salander tends to his wounds, they have sex. The pair learn that Harriet's late father, Gottfried, and later Martin, her brother, committed the murders.  While looking for more proof, Blomkvist gets caught by Martin, gassed unconscious, and restrained in a specially prepared basement. Martin brags about killing and raping women for decades, like his father, but admits to not knowing what happened to Harriet. As Martin prepares to kill Blomkvist, Salander arrives and wounds Martin, forcing him to flee. Pursued by Salander on her motorcycle, Martin runs his car off the road and hits a propane tank, which blows up the car and kills him. As she nurses Blomkvist back to health, Salander reveals that she was institutionalized after attempting to burn her father alive as a child.  They deduce that Harriet is alive and in hiding; traveling to London, they find her. Harriet reveals that Gottfried sexually abused her when she was 14 for an entire year before she was able to defend herself, killing him in the process. Martin continued the abuse after Gottfried's death. Her cousin, Anita, smuggled her off the island and let Harriet assume her identity in London, though Anita and her husband were later killed in a car accident. Finally free of her brother, Harriet returns to Sweden and tearfully reunites with Henrik.  Henrik gives Blomkvist the promised information against Wennerström, but it proves to be outdated. Salander reveals that she has hacked Wennerström's accounts and discovered he is laundering money for various criminal syndicates. She gives Blomkvist evidence of Wennerström's crimes, which Blomkvist publishes in a scathing editorial, ruining Wennerström and bringing Blomkvist to national prominence. Salander, in disguise, travels to Switzerland and removes two billion euros from Wennerström's secret accounts. Wennerström is later murdered in an apparent gangland shooting.  On her way to give Blomkvist a Christmas present, Salander sees him and his lover, Erika Berger, being affectionate. She discards the gift and rides away on her motorbike.