Elijah works both at a wine business and at his family's local barbecue restaurant in Memphis, TN, where his father Louis and mother Sylvia also work. His grandfather struggled and worked very hard to build the successful business and Louis expects Elijah to take it over someday. Eli is not interested and wants to do his own thing, so he's leaning torward wine.  At a large family dinner, Eli's dad openly criticises him for forgetting something for the restaurant, so Elijah admits he was at an open mixer for a sommelier school. Louis makes it seem like he is flighty, changing his mind as to what he wants constantly. That night, Sylvia calls Louis out for not supporting their son. He is frustrated at Elijah's lack of interest in the restaurant  Elijah meets Tanya at the wine shop and they go on a date at a roller rink. He tells her about how he became interested in wine, and expresses his aspiration to become a master sommelier. Seeing his passion for it, Tanya encourages him to pursue his dream. Elijah takes the grueling entrance exam for the Master Sommelier program and earns admittance.  Looking for his father, Elijah finds him at a location for a second restaurant he plans on opening. Louis details his plans for the place, and finally he directly tells him he doesn't want it. Eli announces that he's going back to school for the training, and investing all of his savings into it. However, he also promises to continue working.  To improve their chances, Eli joins a study group. When they are told the class is invited to an exchange program in Paris, he realizes he won't be able to afford it. Classmate Harvard offers to split it with him, so Elijah raises the rest of the money he needs through fundraising in his extended family and selling his car.   Elijah has a major financial setback when Harvard's father calls him back home. He is expected to return to work with him at Citibank. While in Paris Elijah learns Sylvia's cancer, which had been in remission for two years, has metastasized. However, she insists he stay in France and wires him money despite Louis's disapproval.  Sylvia dies, and Elijah returns home for the funeral. He tries to concentrate, but is constantly distracted, thinking about his mom. Eli begins missing classes for his sommelier program in order to help Louis at the family restaurant. Eventually, Elijah is forced to withdraw from the program.  Louis gives in and, with Tanya and others, helps Elijah study for the master sommelier exam. He takes his exam and later finds out that he did not pass, so returns to his two jobs. Sometime thereafter, out to dinner one night with Tanya, he comes across one of his friends who'd struggled in the study group but still became a master sommelier. Inspired, Elijah reenrolls in the program.