Kendall, James, Carlos, Logan, Gustavo, Kelly, Katie (Kendall's younger sister), and Jennifer (Kendall's and Katie's mom) are on their plane ride to London for the first stop on their world tour. At the baggage claim in the airport, MI6 Agent Simon Lane switches identical bags with Kendall, unbeknownst to the boys, to prevent henchmen from retrieving the Beetle, a powerful device capable of reversing gravity that Lane took from evil airline mogul Atticus Moon while his henchmen take him away.  Big Time Rush checks in at the Queen's Hotel and unknowingly, MI6 agents fail to take out the boys and they finally realize that Kendall has the wrong bag. At the same moment, they also realize that MI6, Swedish spies, and a mysterious woman in leather are all out to get the Beetle from them by any means necessary. The woman in leather is revealed as Penny, daughter of Agent Lane, and the band sets out with Penny in a black spy van with an AI to rescue her father, while Gustavo and Kelly worry about what the boys are up to like causing trouble while they are away from them.  Meanwhile, Gustavo and Kelly are mad at the boys for being late for their soundcheck rehearsal and end up doing their best to find them. Meanwhile, in the storyline of Katie and Mrs. Knight, they were having their pastime with the Duke Of Bath which Katie wants her mom to fall in love with over the pastime so Katie can become a princess like in her dream. While everyone's busy, (Gustavo and Kelly being tortured at the MI6 HQ and Katie and Mrs. Knight having pastime with the Duke Of Bath), the guys, including Penny, disguise themselves so they could get past Moon's crew through the park so they could carefully get to the soundcheck. They don't get to the park safely, they get into problems, like being chased by fans, being chased by a dog, and more. After the boys finish their soundcheck, they meet up with Penny backstage and rush to the field where Moon's helicopter landed.  The MI6 Agency figures out Moon's plan and tries to stop him but can't because Moon is jamming communication signals so no one gets in his way. The boys realize that Carlos' dream of becoming international super spies and singing the Beatles' is coming true so they follow Carlos' plan to stop Moon. After the boys manage to defeat Moon and save Katie, the MI6 agents arrive at the scene to give the boys a helicopter ride to Hyde Park just in time for the boys to finally start their world tour.  After they finished their first stop on their world tour concert, Gustavo finally allowed the boys to go anywhere, including visiting every single tourist spot in London that they wished to visit. When the boys realize they don't have a ride, Penny and Agent Lane come back and offer them a ride. As the boys agree to ride one more time, they ride off and disappear into the night.