Ethan returns home from college to visit his parents and younger siblings, Becca and Matt. A passionate inventor, he leaves early to conduct an on-campus experiment, but promises his disappointed parents he'll prioritize the family on his next break.  Ethan has invented a machine called ELI that is designed to create wireless electrical power. However, as his project lacks university authorization, Ethan, his girlfriend Hannah, and another friend must sneak into the university lab to perform his experiments with it. When they activate the device, they fail to notice a black, smoky mass emanating from the equipment. The trial causes a campus-wide blackout, and the trio flee.  The next morning, Ethan learns that his parents have died in a traffic accident, and he returns home to care for Becca and Matt. He begins a part-time job, and continues to work on ELI in his spare time. After he performs further experiments, strange things begin to occur through the house. The siblings come to believe that Ethan's machine is allowing their parents' spirits to make contact with them. When a supernatural entity appears, it tells them that the machine is harnessing spiritual energy, and that increasing its power will allow both of their parents to appear.  Ethan enlists the help of his neighbour, Tom, a widower, to illegally tap into the street's power supply. Becca claims to have given her doll away to comfort a new friend, Alice, who fears a man named Henry. The supernatural events increase and become menacing. Tom begins to exhibit odd behaviour, warning Ethan that the machine's effect has expanded beyond the house. Hannah views footage of the first experiment and shows Ethan a ghostly, female silhouette, and they ask an elderly neighbour, Marie, about the house's previous occupants. Marie tells them about Alice, a child who disappeared from the house, whom Marie thinks was killed by Henry, her foster father.  Becca is lured into the basement by the doll and dragged into a large chest. Ethan informs Matt that the ghosts are not their parents, and Hannah and Matt look for Becca while Ethan goes to switch ELI off. However, he finds that Tom has taken the machine to communicate with his wife's spirit, Ethan breaks in to Tom's house and a fight ensues. Matt and Hannah find Becca in a hidden underground room, but all three are overcome by murderous ghosts.  After Ethan explains that the spirit isn't his wife, Tom releases him. The ghost then turns on Tom and drags him away. Ethan smashes the machine with a baseball bat, saving his family, as well as Tom.  As the siblings prepare to move to a new home, Becca is given the doll she'd intentionally left in the house to keep Alice company. She races in to return it before they leave.  The final scene is that of a happy and loving family unit, with Ethan and Hannah now assuming the parental roles for Matt and Becca. The film ends as the doll is seen peeking out from inside a packing box.