In the film, each woman is associated with a specific color. There are Jo Bradmore (red), Tangie Adrose (orange), Yasmine (yellow), Juanita Sims (green), Kelly Watkins (blue), Nyla Adrose (purple), and Crystal Wallace (brown). Alice Adrose (white) and Gilda (black) are characters created specifically for the movie.  The movie starts with the main characters reciting a poem about their inner thoughts ("Dark Phrases"). Kelly goes to Tangie's brownstone to talk to Crystal about her children's safety. At the same time, Juanita comes to leave her lover, Frank, a potted plant and break up with him ("No Assistance"). Kelly tries to talk to Crystal's children about how they ended up in the hospital, but Crystal's alcoholic boyfriend, Beau Willie, throws her out. Gilda, Crystal's nosy neighbor and apartment manager, tells Kelly about Crystal's situation ("A Night with Beau Willie Brown") and admits that she was the one who called her. Meanwhile, Alice, Tangie's mother, comes to ask Tangie for money but is rejected.    Alice goes out to raise money and meets Yasmine, who gives her some. Yasmine brags to her dance class about a man named Bill she met. One of Yasmine's students, Nyla, talks with the girls about losing her virginity on her graduation night ("Graduation Nite") and later gets sick.  Juanita waits in Jo's office at a magazine company. Crystal arrives for work, late, and tells Jo that her 9 o'clock appointment is here even though it's already 10 o'clock. Juanita then goes in to try to get Jo to donate money to a non-profit organization for women's health, but Jo rudely refuses.  Kelly is at the gynecologist with her partner, Donald, who tells her she cannot have children because of damage in her fallopian tubes from an untreated STD. Juanita is at the hospital giving advice on safe sex to women when Frank comes by and asks for forgiveness, but Juanita rejects him. Crystal pleads with Beau Willie to stop drinking, but he only cares about marrying her for welfare benefits. At a restaurant, Jo leaves a voicemail for her husband, Carl, asking him to call her.   At that same restaurant, Yasmine and Bill have a date night together, recalling a story about her love for Latin dances ("Now I Love Somebody More Than"). Alice comes home to her apartment and it is revealed that Nyla is Alice's daughter and Tangie's sister. Alice gives Nyla the feeble amount of money she made, under the belief that it is for Nyla's college application fees. Meanwhile, Yasmine is walking home from her date with Bill, explaining that she loved dance more than anything until she met Bill ("Now I Love Somebody More Than" cont.).  Nyla shows up at Tangie’s apartment to ask for money, explaining that she needs it for college, but Tangie is not fooled. She then deduces that Nyla is pregnant, but Nyla denies this. Tangie relishes the fact that Nyla is not so perfect after all and that Alice will hate her the way she hates Tangie. She then tells her about the time she got pregnant and reveals where to find a back-alley abortionist.  Jo waits impatiently for Carl to return home and it is then revealed that Carl was the man Donald had arrested earlier. The couple then gets into an argument about Carl investing in a failed company with Jo's money, which Carl did because he felt emasculated as a man, who is not providing and forfeiting his right to do anything in favor of submitting to Jo's will. Donald returns to his and Kelly's apartment where Kelly then reveals how she got her STD. She explains that before she was married, she and two of her friends had been seeing the same man and all contracted a disease from him ("Pyramid").  The next day, Carl reveals that he got tickets to the opera, which he hates, as an apology for last night's argument with Jo. During this conversation, he is clearly looking at other men desirously. Tangie goes to pay the three hundred dollars for Nyla's college fees but Yasmine reveals that the dance class is free.  Tangie realizes that Nyla went to see the abortionist, Rose (Macy Gray), who is terrifying, and probably drunk. Nyla loses consciousness during the abortion as Rose tells her a story about her life in Harlem ("I Used to Live in the World"). Yasmine excitedly invites Bill into her home for dinner where he savagely rapes her. Jo and her husband are at the opera, watching a performance of La Donna in Viola (an Italian, operatic version of "Pyramid"). During the performance, Jo watches as her husband cruises another man.  The next day, Crystal left papers for Jo’s meeting at home. Crystal offers to take the train home, but Jo tells her that'll waste time and offers to drive her there. Seeing the male driver in the car, Beau Willie believes Crystal is having an affair and the abuse begins. Their children overhear Beau Willie beating Crystal and Gilda tries to calm their fears by telling them a story about how she met her first husband ("Toussaint").  Beau Willie asks Crystal to marry him once again. After she refuses, Beau Willie becomes violent and dangles the children over the fifth-story window, giving Crystal an ultimatum. Gilda runs out into the street and screams for help as Jo, Juanita and several on-lookers witness Beau Willie drop the children to their deaths ("A Night with Beau Willie Brown" cont.).  Donald interrogates Yasmine at the hospital about her rape, where he informs her that it'll be difficult to press charges as she tells him that women can be raped anywhere by anyone ("Latent Rapists"). At the same hospital, Alice comes in search of Nyla, who is being interrogated by Renee and Kelly, and gives them and Alice a vivid detail of her abortion ("Abortion Cycle #1"). After being informed of the situation and recognizing Crystal, Kelly becomes visibly upset.  Alice confronts Tangie in her apartment and after a physical altercation, they reveal to each other that Tangie was raped by her grandfather, Alice's father, causing Alice to take her to the abortionist where Alice supervised her, whereas Nyla was unsupervised. Alice reveals that her father took her virginity and was given to a white man at fifteen to have children. All these events explained why Tangie is the way she is ("One" cont.). After kicking Alice out of her apartment, Gilda comes into her house to put ice on the bruise on Tangie's face. She explains that Tangie and her mother make a lot of sense before telling her a detailed account of Tangie's exploits ("One" cont.). Tangie believes that Gilda has been snooping again through the wall, but Gilda reveals that she was once like Tangie.  Carl comes home to find Jo distraught and reveals what happened with Crystal, stating that she never once knew she was abused and wondering what kind of person she was. Jo and Carl embrace as she sobs into his shoulder. Alice and Nyla return to their apartment where Alice tells her to pray for forgiveness. As Nyla prays, Alice attempts to exorcise her with ashes and hot oil, hurting Nyla. Nyla runs away to Yasmine's apartment, hoping to find some comfort. However, Yasmine is too traumatized from her rape to answer the door.  Kelly is waiting outside the brownstone as Crystal comes out with a pail and a brush to wash away the blood of her children. Crystal comments that she does not feel awake and thinks that this is what death must feel like. Nyla passes by and Kelly takes her into Crystal's apartment to wash her up. Hearing Tangie bring in yet another suitor to her apartment, Nyla confronts her. Tangie kicks her suitor out after he asks her to invite Nyla for a threesome. Tangie and Nyla hash out their problems before Tangie reveals that her life is complicated and she is still learning from her mistakes ("No More Love Poems #4").  Yasmine is practicing an interpretive dance ("Sechita") as Kelly discovers that Crystal has swallowed an entire bottle of pills. Crystal is taken to the hospital as Yasmine is visited by Donald, who has informed her that Bill has been murdered after attempting to rape another woman. She goes into the morgue to look at his body one last time, before slapping him and then leaving.  That night, Kelly is unable to sleep, feeling guilty for not taking Crystal's children away sooner. Juanita comes home with a birthday cake for Frank, only to find that he is not home and his clothes are gone. Juanita vents her frustration to her women's health class ("Somebody Almost Walked Off Wid Alla My Stuff") as Crystal is released from the hospital and goes into therapy. Jo gives Juanita a check for her non-profit organization, Beau Willie is sent to jail, and Nyla returns to dance class with Yasmine.  Tangie invites Crystal to Nyla’s going away party. Crystal initially declines. Tangie begrudgingly invites Gilda, both finally having an unspoken, mutual respect for each other. Juanita breaks things off with Frank for good ("No More Love Poems #1"). Crystal is still wondering how Beau Willie could do such a thing, but Gilda tells her that she also needs to take responsibility for not leaving Beau Willie sooner.  Jo confronts Carl on his homosexuality, which he angrily denies at first but Jo tells him that she was not oblivious to the way Carl looks at other men. After venting his frustrations over Jo's controlling nature, he then admits that he has been sleeping with other men and tells her that he is sorry. Jo, however, tells him that she is not accepting his apology, having heard him apologize many times before ("Sorry"). Jo then reveals that she is HIV-positive from Carl's exploits and tells Carl to leave when she gets back home.  At Nyla's going away party, all the women gather to celebrate. Jo and Juanita have a conversation on the rooftop about HIV, while the other women come out to join them, including Crystal, as the women talk about the value of their love ("My Love Is Too") and share their experiences with men's apologies ("Sorry" cont.).  Crystal tells everyone that she was missing something in her life and the women reveal the hurt and pain they've gone through in their lives, before coming together to embrace Crystal and each other ("A Laying on of Hands") and move forward with their lives.