In the small town of Húsavík, Iceland, Lars Erickssong and Sigrit Ericksdóttir, best friends since childhood, make music together as the band Fire Saga, much to the dismay of Lars' widowed father, Erick ("Volcano Man"). Lars has one dream: to win the Eurovision Song Contest. But at the local bar where they perform, the only song the audience wants to hear is the suggestive nonsense song "Ja Ja Ding Dong". Sigrit's mother Helga also disapproves of their partnership, saying that Lars is holding Sigrit back, and that she will never hit the "Speorg note"—a note that can only be sung when being your truest self—when singing with him. The pair apply and are selected to take part in Söngvakeppnin, the Icelandic pre-selection for Eurovision. Lars is so ecstatic about their participation that he rings the church belltower, resulting in him being arrested by a policeman for falsely signalling an emergency. Lars, to his defense, says that the town is near death and that Fire Saga's participation in the contest is the only chance their town has to be alive. Sigrit convinces the police officers to free him. Sigrit, who believes in the old Icelandic tradition of elves, asks the elves for help to get them into the contest in the hope that if Fire Saga wins, Lars will return Sigrit's romantic feelings for him.  Fire Saga's performance at Söngvakeppnin goes wrong due to technical problems ("Double Trouble"). A dejected Lars declines to attend the boat party thrown for all the finalists and sits on the dock as Sigrit tries to console him. Suddenly, the boat explodes, killing everyone on board and leaving Fire Saga as the only surviving contestants and thus final winners by default, much to the disappointment of the participation committee. Lars and Sigrit arrive in Edinburgh, Scotland, where Eurovision is being held ("Amar pelos dois"). Once there, Lars rebuffs Sigrit's attempts to kiss him, reiterating that they need to focus on the competition, not their relationship. They struggle with a new remix of their song and Lars' elaborate staging plans, and meet Alexander Lemtov, the Russian representative who is a favorite to win the contest ("Lion of Love").  Alexander invites Lars and Sigrit to a party at his house, attended by numerous real-life former Eurovision contestants, where he introduces them both to multiple other contestants, including the Greek contestant Mita Xenakis. They join the other contestants in a "Song-a-Long" (a mashup of "Believe", "Ray of Light", "Ne partez pas sans moi", "Waterloo" and "I Gotta Feeling"). Alexander and Sigrit spend the night together, as do Lars and Mita, although neither pair becomes intimate. At their rehearsal, Sigrit expresses her hate for the new clothing and remix and asks Lars to go back to the way things originally were, which Lars does. Later, back at the hotel, Lars overhears Sigrit working on a new song and presumes that it is a love song made for Alexander and that they are pursuing a romantic relationship.  Their semi-final performance of "Double Trouble" initially runs well, but is botched by an accident involving Sigrit's scarf getting caught in a hamster wheel prop, which rolls off the stage and into the audience. The two recover and finish the song, but are met with deafening silence and scattered laughter. Believing Fire Saga has become a laughing stock, they exit the stage, unaware that the crowd has erupted with applause for their persistence in finishing the performance. An angry Lars prepares to return to Iceland. Sigrit pleads with Lars to stay, but Lars angrily refuses. Sigrit then declares their relationship over. Lars tells Sigrit to go sing her love song for Alexander, upon which she reveals that she wrote it for Lars. Lars returns to Iceland to become a fisherman with his father, unaware that Fire Saga has qualified for the final.  Out at sea, Lars confesses his love for Sigrit to his father Erick, who convinces him to go back and fight for his love, expressing admiration for finishing his semi-final performance despite the mishap. Upon learning that Iceland is in the final, Lars dives off the boat and leaves for Edinburgh. Meanwhile, Alexander sees an opportunity to establish a partnership with Sigrit, but she declines. Sigrit realizes that Alexander is gay but can't come out because of homophobia in Russia. Lars hitches a ride with Victor Karlosson (governor of the Central Bank of Iceland, and one of the Icelandic organizational team members), who attempts to murder Lars and reveals that he blew up the boat at Söngvakeppnin, for fear that Iceland would not be able to host Eurovision the following year if they win due to bankruptcy. Unseen elves save Lars by killing Victor with a thrown knife in the back, allowing Lars to make it back to the final in time. Interrupting their performance, he encourages Sigrit to ditch their official entry and perform the song she has written for him ("Húsavík"). Lars starts playing the song on the piano, and Sigrit sings her song, culminating with a Speorg note, touching the audience and the people of Húsavík. Realising that they are in love with each other, Lars and Sigrit kiss on stage to a standing ovation in the audience. Backstage, Alexander is happy for them and accepts Mita's invitation to come to Greece with her in order to find his own happiness.  Fire Saga is disqualified for changing their song during the contest, but both Lars and Sigrit have lost interest in winning the competition, realizing that their relationship is more important. Back in Húsavík, Lars and Sigrit awake on the bus to a huge cheering crowd of locals. Some time later, Fire Saga is back to performing in the local bar, this time at the wedding reception of Lars’ father and Sigrit's mother. Bringing their newborn baby along, they ask if anyone wants to hear their Eurovision song, but the crowd once again demands "Ja Ja Ding Dong".