In Haiti, photographer Victor Fielding and his pregnant wife Sorenne, blessed by a voodoo practitioner, are on their honeymoon until a massive earthquake ensues. Sorenne is gravely injured, and paramedics tell Victor he must choose to save either his wife or child.  Thirteen years later, Victor has lost faith in God since Sorenne's death, and raises his daughter Angela by himself in Georgia. One day after school, Angela ventures into the woods with her Baptist best friend Katherine to perform a séance, attempting to contact Angela's mother. The girls go missing and a three-day manhunt ensues.   The girls are found in a barn on the third day; though traumatized, they seem relatively normal, having suffered only burns to their feet. The next day at home, Angela attacks Victor and begins convulsing, while Katherine has an outburst during a church service where the sacrament of Holy Communion is celebrated. Victor admits Angela into the hospital where their nurse neighbor Ann attends to her. Katherine's mother, Miranda, begins to theorize that the girls traveled to Hell and brought a demon back with them.  The girls' conditions worsen. Ann, convinced that Angela is possessed after the latter reveals knowledge of Ann's experience in the novitiate as a prospective nun and her secret abortion, gives Victor a memoir written by Chris MacNeil, who experienced a similar situation with her daughter Regan in 1973. Chris has spent her life researching exorcisms in every culture, becoming world-renowned for her studies. Regan became distant from her mother due to the memoir's success and has not seen her since. Victor meets with Chris, who visits Angela. Visiting Katherine's home, Chris performs a deliverance ritual on Katherine, who stabs Chris in the eyes with a cross, blinding her.   Victor, Miranda, Ann, and Katherine’s father Tony reach out to the Church for an exorcism. Chris advises Victor to use methods from all different cultures, and the group seeks the help of Father Maddox, a local priest; Don Revans, Katherine's family's Baptist pastor; Stuart, a Pentecostal preacher; and Dr. Beehibe, a rootwork healer. The group plans an ecumenical exorcism, but the local Catholic diocese forbids Maddox from participating as they feel the children are suffering from a psychiatric disorder.   The girls are tied to chairs as the group proceeds with the exorcism. Ann uses a crucifix with the Saint Benedict Medal engraved on it to battle the demon. The demon reveals that Victor did not choose to keep Angela alive thirteen years ago; he chose Sorenne but she died from her injuries. As Ann reads from the biblical text of Ezekiel 16 while holy water is poured on the children, the demon begins to shriek.   The demon tells him that he needs to choose which of the girls gets to live and which one will die, and if a choice is not made, it will kill them both. While Miranda and Victor both refuse to forsake each other's child, Maddox, who has a change of heart, rejoins the group. Maddox reads from the Roman Ritual, only for the demon to snap his neck and kill him. Victor regains his faith and begins to pray the Lord's Prayer, which he learned as a child. As Victor apologizes to Angela and uses Sorenne's scarf to attempt to strengthen her against the demon, Tony yells that he chooses Katherine, and Angela flatlines.   Suddenly, Katherine wakes up in another realm and screams for her parents as the demon "chooses" her, revealing the one that was chosen would be the one who dies. The demon drags Katherine to Hell, while Angela starts to breathe. Police arrive as Miranda and Tony fail to resuscitate Katherine, while Victor tearfully reunites with his daughter.   In the aftermath, Angela returns to school, Miranda and Tony mourn, and Victor visits Sorenne's grave. In the hospital, Chris is reunited with Regan, who forgives her mother.