The town of Barrow, Alaska (now Utqiaġvik), is preparing for its annual period of the winter with a month-long polar night. As the town gets ready, a stranger arrives from a large ship and sabotages the town's communications and transports. Barrow's sheriff, Eben Oleson, investigates and also learns that his estranged wife, Stella, missed the last plane out of town and must stay the 30 days.   That night, a band of vampires, led by Marlow, attacks and slaughters most of the townspeople, forcing Eben's family and several other survivors to take shelter in a boarded-up house with a hidden attic. Resident Wilson is forced to chase after his amnesic father Isaac out into the open, thus losing both of their lives. When the vampires use a civilian as a bait, Eben takes the chance of them torturing her to save a resident named John who was hiding underneath a hut, injured from trying to protect his wife; however, Eben is horrified to see he has turned and forced to kill him when John tries to devour him. In the police station holding cell, Marlow finds the stranger, who believes the vampires will "turn" him as a reward for his help. However, Marlow snaps his neck.   Eighteen days later, when a blizzard hits, the group uses the whiteout to go to the general store for supplies but gets stranded after the blizzard ends. They head for the station while Eben creates a diversion. He lures the vampires to his grandmother's house and uses one of her ultraviolet lights to severely burn Marlow's lover, forcing him to mercy-kill her. Eben is aided by Beau, the town snowplow operator, who kills many of the vampires with his tractor. Beau tries to blow himself up, but Marlow crushes his head. Eben arrives at the station, where he is then forced to kill Carter, who was bitten and has become a vampire.  On Day 27, Stella and Eben see the deputy, Billy, signaling them with a flashlight, and bring him back to the station, after finding out he killed his family to save them from a more painful death. The trio find the others have made for the utilidor, a power and sewage treatment station that still has power, and head over there, but are separated after Stella saves Gail Robbins, a young girl whose family was slaughtered by a vampire. Eben and Billy make it to the utilidor but are attacked by vampire Arvin. Billy kills Arvin but gets bitten in the process. Eben is forced to kill him when he starts to turn.  As the month comes to an end, with the sun due to rise, the vampires prepare to burn the fuel line running through the town, which will cause it to explode and destroy evidence of their presence. Realizing Stella is trapped and that he cannot beat the vampires in his current state, Eben injects himself with Billy's blood. Now a vampire, Eben confronts Marlow and after a vicious fight, manages to kill the vampire leader, causing the remaining vampires to flee. Eben and Stella go off to watch the sunrise together, sharing one last kiss. As the sun comes up, Eben's body burns to ash in Stella's arms.