In 1997, Rachel (Mirren) is honoured by her daughter Sarah (Romi Aboulafia) during a release party in Tel Aviv for Sarah's book, based on the account Rachel, Stefan and David gave of the events in 1965. Concurrently, David (Hinds) is escorted from his apartment by an Israeli government agent for a debriefing. David recognises Stefan (Wilkinson) waiting in another vehicle and unable to face their lie, he commits suicide by stepping in front of an oncoming truck.  In 1965, young Mossad agent Rachel Singer (Chastain) on her first field assignment, arrives in East Berlin to meet with more experienced agents David Peretz (Worthington) and Stefan Gold (Csokas). Their mission is to capture Nazi war criminal Dieter Vogel (Christensen) – infamously known as "The Surgeon of Birkenau" for his medical experiments on Jews during World War II – and bring him to justice in Israel. Rachel and David present themselves as a married couple from Argentina, and Rachel becomes a patient at Vogel's obstetrics and gynaecology clinic.  Rachel plans to have a gynecological exam at Vogel’s clinic. In order to present herself as a married woman who recently had intercourse, she wants to sleep with David but does not explain why. Although the two have feelings for each other, David resists her overture. Instead, she sleeps with Stefan.  At the appointment and during an uncomfortable pelvic exam, Rachel injects Vogel with a sedative and convinces the nurse to believe that he has suffered a heart attack. Stefan and David arrive dressed as paramedics and take off with the unconscious Vogel in an ambulance. They attempt to leave by train, but Vogel awakens and sounds the horn of the van where he is being held, alerting guards to their presence. When gunfire erupts, David saves the compromised Rachel. The Mossad agents have no choice but to bring Vogel to their apartment and plan a new extraction.  David and Stefan take turns monitoring and feeding Vogel while leaving him chained to the wall heater. During his shift, David becomes violently enraged by Vogel's Nazi view that Jews have many weaknesses, such as selfishness, making them easily subdued. David smashes a bowl over Vogel's head and starts repeatedly beating him. Rachel runs in and tries to stop him but David unknowingly hits her while still hitting Vogel. David is finally restrained and pulled out of the room by Stefan.  Rachel goes into the bathroom to wash the blood off her face, leaving Vogel alone. Vogel surreptitiously grabs a shard of the broken bowl and starts cutting through his bonds. When Rachel returns to the room Vogel attacks her with the shard, throwing her against the wall and knocking her unconscious. Vogel opens the front door, runs down the stairs and escapes.  Stefan, panicking and hoping to avoid humiliation, makes up a story that Rachel shot and killed Vogel when he tried to escape, and they were able to get rid of the body. Rachel insists they cannot lie about what happened but David, who is blaming himself for Vogel escaping, agrees to lie. Stefan pushes Rachel to reluctantly agree.  When Rachel discovers she is pregnant, she marries Stefan, the father of her child, although she loves David. In the following years, the agents are venerated as national heroes for their roles in the mission.  A generation later, at a dinner celebrating their daughter's book release, Stefan takes Rachel aside to set a meeting to discuss new information he has obtained. Later, at David's flat, Stefan provides evidence that Vogel is in a mental hospital in Ukraine, and is soon scheduled to be interviewed by a local journalist.  Stefan claims David killed himself because he was a coward. Rachel refutes Stefan's explanation, recalling an encounter with David a day before his suicide, in which he revealed his shame about the lie and disclosed that he had spent years unsuccessfully searching the world for Vogel so he could finally be brought to justice. He was further disheartened by Rachel's admission that she would continue propagating the lie to protect those closest to her, particularly her daughter.  Nevertheless, Rachel finally feels compelled to travel to Kyiv. She investigates the journalist's lead and is able to travel to the asylum. She reaches the room just minutes before the journalist and discovers the man claiming to be Vogel is not him. Describing the encounter to Stefan over the phone, Rachel declares she will not continue to lie about the 1965 mission. She leaves a note for the journalist and suddenly spots the real Vogel among the other patients and follows him to an isolated area of the hospital.  After a confrontation in which Vogel stabs her twice with scissors, Rachel kills Vogel by plunging a poisoned syringe into his back. Later Rachel's note is discovered and read by the journalist. It describes the truth of the mission, ready to be relayed to the world.