The King of Braves GaoGaiGar Final (勇者王ガオガイガー FINAL, Yūshaō Gaogaigā Fainaru) is a Japanese OVA anime series produced by Sunrise that is the direct sequel to the 1997 anime television series The King of Braves GaoGaiGar and the first Brave metaseries officially funded by Bandai following the acquisition of Sunrise. The series is directed by Yoshitomo Yonetani and written by Fuyunori Gobu and Yuichiro Takeda. It was released in Japan from January 21, 2000 to March 21, 2003, with a total of 8 episodes. A 12-episode TV re-imagining, with the subtitle Grand Glorious Gathering was broadcast on TV Tokyo from April 11, 2005 to June 27, 2005. A crossover sequel light novel, which focuses on the unused concept of the series, was released on Sunrise's Yatate Bunko imprint on September 30, 2016.

The series is set in 2007, two years after the Gutsy Galaxy Guard thwarted the invasion of the Zonders, and Mamoru and Galeon departed for the Tri-Solar System. The organization is now tracking down machines called Q-Parts that have regenerative properties, with the criminal group BioNet having stolen one of the machines that was being researched at CERN. Gai is now working with Renais-Kardif Shishioh and biologist Papillon Noir to reclaim one of the Q-Parts from BioNet using the GaoFighGar, GGG's newest trump card. However, he and others become involved in a new conflict when a familiar figure reappears, along with an upcoming calamity that could destroy the universe.

The series is set after the events of the original series, featuring new and returning characters and those from other GaoGaiGar media, including Mamoru and Galeon and the first anime appearance of Renais Kerdif-Shishioh, Gai's cousin from the GGG's sister organization Chasseur, as depicted in the novel "Queen of Leo <Leon Reine>: The King of Braves Gaogaigar 2005". The series also introduces GaoGaiGar's successor mechanoids GaoFighGar and Genesic GaoGaiGar.

Final has different themes than the original series, focusing mainly on two central themes. The first is "together with the oath sworn through courage", a phrase which Gai and others reference  throughout the series. The oath is not literal, but rather an embodiment of the heroes' determination to fight to the end. As Papillon Noir states in the finale, they will overcome the difficulties that lie ahead as long as they have courage.

The second theme is God versus Devil, a theme that also appeared in the final battle of the original series. It forms the core philosophy of Planetary Master Palpalapa, who believes that when two great powers clash, the victor becomes God and the vanquished becomes the Devil.  He sees himself as God, and at two points he mentally sees Gai as the Devil who brings ruin.  The theme is also evident in Palpalapa's ultimate attack, "God and Devil", which mirrors Gai's "Hell and Heaven" attack. Later in Final, Gai is revealed to be the God of Destruction, who brings the hope of starting over from zero and the challenge of infinite possibility.  The dualist nature of GaoGaiGar suggests there is a god or goddess of protection, who is implied to be Mikoto Utsugi, an invincible life-form formed from the remnants of Zonder Metal's power.

Starting in April 2005, a twelve episode "re-imagining" of the series, GaoGaiGar Final: Grand Glorious Gathering, aired on TV Tokyo. Due to the different running lengths of the OVA versus the space allowed on TV, the episodes were re-edited and spread across those twelve episodes. Footage from the original TV series and new voice recordings were used to fill in the allotted time, as well as new footage which almost exclusively serves to further establish a connection between GaoGaiGar and the anime series "Betterman", which takes place in the same world and setting. Several incidents of nudity found in the OVA were also censored or omitted.

The original OVA series ran from January 21, 2000 to March 21, 2003. The opening song from Episodes 1-6 is titled "Yuusha Oh Tanjou -Mythology Version-" (勇者王誕生!-神話バージョン-, Yūshaō Tanjō! Maisorojī Vājon-) by Masaaki Endoh while Episode 7 is titled "Yuusha Oh Tanjou -Ultimate Mythology Version-" (勇者王誕生!-究極神話バージョン-, Yūshaō Tanjō! Kyūkyoku Maisorojī Vājon-) by Masaaki Endoh with the GGG Sound Choir. The first ending song is titled "Leon Reine" (獅子の女王, Rion rēnu), performed by Saeko Suzuki for Episodes 1-6 and by MIQ in episode 7 while the second ending song is titled "Itsuka Hoshi no Umi De -Character Version-" (いつか星の海で -Character Version-, "Someday, in the Sea of Stars -Character Version-") by the anime's official cast. Muse Communication licensed the series for distribution outside Japan and will begin streaming on Muse Asia YouTube Channel in Southeast Asian territories on March 22, 2022.[2] Discotek Media announced the OVAs will be released on Blu-ray in 2023.[3]

The anime remaster was then broadcast in TV Tokyo from April 11, 2005 to June 27, 2005 before being replaced by Gun Sword on its timeslot. The opening theme is titled "Yuusha Oh Tanjou -Gathering Mythology Version-" (勇者王誕生!-集大成神話バージョン-, Yūshaō Tanjō! Gyazaringu Maisorojī Vājon-) by Masaaki Endoh while the ending songs reuse the songs from the OVA except for certain episodes.

A sequel web light novel, titled King of Kings: GaoGaiGar VS Betterman (覇界王～ガオガイガー対ベターマン～, Hakaiō ~Gaogaigā tai Betāman ~, "King of Destruction: GaoGaiGar VS Betterman") was written by Yuichiro Takeda and released by Sunrise under the Yatate Bunko imprint from September 30, 2016 to March 17, 2021. It serves as a crossover to Betterman, using unused concepts from GaoGaiGar Final Project Z.[4] The story takes place 8 years after the events of the OVA, focusing on both Mamoru and Kaido and the newly formed Gutsy Global Guard as they battle against the threat of Triple Zero, known also as The Power. While another faction known as Somniums, stars to mysteriously support GGG as they prepare for an event referred as the Age of Patria. Shinkigensha compiled the web novels and published it in a physical novel form from June 22, 2017[5] to September 28, 2021.

An ongoing web manga adaption was released in September 2018, written by Yuichiro Takeda and illustrated by Naoyuki Fujisawa. The first tankobon volume was released on March 27, 2019.

The series has been included in various video games, starting with Bandai Namco Entertainment's long running Super Robot Wars franchise, starting from 3rd Super Robot Wars Alpha: To the End of the Galaxy. King of Kings: GaoGaiGar vs. Betterman made its debut in Super Robot Wars 30.