Due to the 21-century ecological crisis on Earth, humankind has been terraforming Mars by sending atmosphere-producing algae to its surface. When the oxygen begins decreasing, Mars-1 is sent to investigate.  A gamma-ray burst damages Mars-1 as it reaches Mars. Commander Kate Bowman remains on board for repairs, while the other crew members Quinn Burchenal, Bud Chantilas, Robby Gallagher, Ted Santen, and Chip Pettengill head towards the automated habitat (HAB 1). The landing craft is damaged and tumbles to the wrong location, and AMEE, the military robot navigator, is jettisoned. Chantilas is mortally wounded and asks the others to leave without him. Bowman puts out a shuttle-wide fire and communicates with Houston. Houston tells her that Mars-1 may be able to return to Earth.  The landing party finds HAB 1 destroyed and prepares to die when oxygen runs out. Santen walks off. Pettengill follows him and starts an argument, then accidentally knocks him into the canyon. Petengill tells the others that Santen committed suicide. As he's asphyxiating to death, Gallagher opens his helmet and discovers that Mars's atmosphere contains oxygen, more than the terraforming would have produced. The trio set fire to the ruins of HAB 1 to warm them during the night.   AMEE rejoins the crew, but when crew discusses shutting it down and taking its guidance device, AMEE wounds Burchenal and leaves. Gallagher builds a radio from the Mars Rover Pathfinder. Houston picks up their signal on a long-unused frequency and alerts Bowman. Bowman tells them to reach a failed Russian probe 100 km away and launch themselves in its rock sample return system.  As they weather an ice storm, Gallagher and Burchenal argue with Pettengill, who later flees with the radio but is killed by AMEE. Gallagher and Burchenal recover the radio and find Pettengill's body full of Martian nematodes. Nearby, they see a field of algae being eaten by nematodes. Burchenal deduces that the nematodes have been eating the algae and excreting oxygen, and he captures a few in a sample vial. Drawn to Burchenal's wounds, the nematodes swarm him. He gives Gallagher the vial and immolates himself.  Gallagher discovers the Russian probe needs a power source. After he tells Bowman he should have kissed her, he realizes he could use AMEE's power core. He lures AMEE over and disables her with one of the probe's sample launchers, then launches himself into orbit. Bowman tethers out to retrieve and revive him, and they finally kiss.