Pregnant, 17-year-old Novalee Nation and her boyfriend, Willy Jack Pickens, are moving from Tennessee to California. In the car, Novalee puts Willy Jack's hand on her belly and asks him if he can feel "where the heart is". Disturbed, Willy Jack lies and then abandons Novalee at a Walmart in Sequoyah, Oklahoma, when she went inside to use the restroom and gets some shoes, after losing them during the drive.  With no money and nowhere to go, Novalee begins secretly living in the Walmart, hiding until after closing. She meets "Sister" Thelma Husband, the local welcome wagon, who gives her a buckeye tree, and photographer Moses Whitecotton. When the tree becomes sick, Novalee seeks help at the local library, where she meets the curt librarian Forney Hull. Forney is a brilliant and out-of-place man from the East Coast. He had dropped out of college and became trapped in the blue-collar town to take care of his mentally and physically unwell sister, Mary Elizabeth, the "real" librarian.   Meanwhile, Willy Jack continued his way to California but stopped to pick up an attractive girl experiencing car trouble. They're quickly pulled over by local police: the girl is only 14, and Willy Jack is blamed and arrested when they find stolen merchandise in his car, which the girl had lifted from a 7-Eleven store before being picked up.  Alone in the closed Walmart, she's been living in for 6 weeks, Novalee goes into labor. Forney, who had realized she was homeless and living in the Walmart, smashes through the window to help deliver her child, whom she names Americus. Novalee becomes a media darling as the mother of the "Walmart baby." Donations and letters pour in, and Novalee is guaranteed a job in any Walmart for life. While in the hospital, Novalee is befriended by Lexie Coop, a cheerful nurse whose quest to provide her food-named children with a daddy always results in a new baby, and no new daddy.  Her estranged mother, Mama Lil, who left when Novalee was 5, visits after seeing her on television, but steals the donation money and Novalee is left abandoned and penniless with her baby once more. Sister Husband arrives and offers to take Novalee and Americus home to live with her. Novalee and Americus grow with the security of their new circle of friends and family. Novalee becomes especially close to Forney, who assists her in improving herself via books. Forney is infatuated with Novalee and adores Americus, but Novalee has sworn off men and is intimidated by his education, intelligence, and class background. The infant Americus is kidnapped while Novalee is Christmas tree shopping with Forney. The baby is recovered from a church nativity scene, where she had been left by a religious couple from Midnight, Mississippi who had previously written Novalee a letter saying her illegitimate child was an abomination.  Three years later, Novalee is starting a career as a professional photographer thanks to Moses's mentorship. Willy Jack has become a one-hit-wonder with a song he wrote in jail, signing with music agent Ruth Meyers in Nashville, who gives him a makeover and the stage name "Billy Shadow."  Sister Husband is killed and their home destroyed when a tornado devastates the town. Sister left Novalee everything, which enables Novalee to build a house and realize her dream of living in a home without wheels under it and also quit her Walmart job to be a photographer full time. Novalee wins an award for a post-tornado photo she took of the buckeye tree and Americus, which she dedicates as a memorial to Sister. She realizes she is beginning to reciprocate Forney's feelings, though she still feels he deserves better than her.  Willy Jack has grown frustrated with the limits of his career and looks to replace his manager, Ruth. The replacement he interviews warns that Ruth is brutal and won't take kindly to being betrayed. In a vicious confrontation, Ruth, who has discovered his betrayal, refuses to assist with mitigating a lawsuit claiming Willy Jack stole his hit song from his former cellmate, Tommy, and drops him as a client. The combination of the lawsuit and Ruth's influence blacklist Willy Jack and his singing career is effectively over.   Novalee receives an alarming phone call from one of Lexie's children and rushes to Lexie's to discover she was nearly beaten to death by her most recent boyfriend, a predator who had targeted her to gain sexual access to her children. He attacked her as she protected them. Lexie's injuries keep her from working, so she and her children move in with Novalee and Americus. Lexie breaks down, feeling guilty and angry, tearfully regretting her choice of men, and Novalee helps her heal.  When Forney's sister Mary Elizabeth dies, Novalee finds and comforts him. The pair have sex and Forney confesses his love for her. Freed at last, everyone assumes Forney will leave to resume school, and the town hires a new librarian. Forney returns from a trip back East, and tells Novalee he will get a menial job at the plastics factory to stay with her, rather than complete his studies at Bowdoin College and fulfil his dream of becoming a history teacher. Novalee decides to lie and say she does not love him to prevent him from wasting his potential. Heartbroken, he returns to Bowdoin.  Lexie gets her happily ever after when she marries Ernie, a dopey exterminator who is not her usual type. She fell in love with him upon hearing he traded his restored 1967 Chevy Camaro for custody of his stepdaughter, whom he adopted as his own. Lexie also becomes pregnant again. Meanwhile, due to his ending career, Willy Jack becomes a depressed washout and addict. Drunk, he collapses on a railroad track and loses his legs when he is hit by a train.  On Americus' fifth birthday, Novalee sees a newspaper article about Willy Jack being robbed of his wheelchair. She visits him in the hospital, and he confesses his whole life would've been different if he had not lied about being able to feel the baby's heartbeat in the car the day he abandoned her. He warns about telling lies so big, they change your entire life. Although she warned Willy Jack to stay away from Americus, Novalee sees in him a changed man and forgives him. She brings him back home to Tennessee.   Taking Willy Jack's advice to the heart and realizing her mistake in lying to Forney, Novalee drives to Maine to find him at Bowdoin. She confesses she really does love Forney, but lied because he deserved something better. He says there is nothing better than her. The two marry in a Walmart, surrounded by friends and family.