1909, Georgia. Pregnant with her father's child, teenager Celie lives with her sister Nettie and father Alfonso, her mom having passed away some time ago. When Celie gives birth Alfonso takes the child away as he had done with her first. He then forces her to marry an abusive local farmer and father of three, Albert "Mister" Johnson. When Alfonso tries to molest Nettie she moves into in Mister's farmhouse until he exiles her when she rebukes his advances. She promises to write to Celie everyday before leaving.  In 1917, Celie is still married to Mister, while their son Harpo marries fierce, defiant Sofia. Harpo tries to build a house, but later turns it into a juke joint. Celie befriends Sofia, but she leaves Harpo when he tries to tame her.  One day, independent jazz singer Shug Avery comes to town to perform at the joint. Harpo has been seeing another woman named Mary "Squeak" Agnes. When he tries to dance with Sofia, Mary Agnes cuts in and ends up starting a fight that trashes the joint. Celie begs Shug to stay with her, but Shug decides to bring her instead. When they return to Mister's home, Shug finds and reveals to Celie a letter in the mailbox addressed to Celie from Nettie, revealing that Nettie has been living in Africa.  Back in Georgia, Sofia is called out by the mayor's wife to be her maid, but she refuses, resulting in her arrest. She is released after six years and ends up having to work for the mayor's wife anyway.  On Easter Sunday in 1943, Celie confronts Mister in front of his father and their family and leaves him along with Shug. Mary Agnes goes with them to Memphis, while Sofia is her original self again. Celie vows to Mister that until he does right by her, everything in his life will crumble.  In 1945 when Alfonso dies it's revealed by his wife that he wasn't Celie or Netties father and through their mother both sisters own the grocery store and the home they were brought up in. Celie starts up a pants shop with help from Shug, Sofia, and Mary Agnes. Meanwhile, Mister has become a miserable drunk. He vows to do right by Celie and later visits her shop and buys a pair of pants. While she is hesitant to see him, she agrees to maintain a friendship with him.  In 1947, Celie reunites with Nettie, along with Adam and Olivia, Celie's children. She joins hands with them as she and everyone else thanks God for how far they have come.