Echo, a freshman in high school, is attempting to come to terms with the loss of her older sister, Zoë, who was murdered a year ago. Echo's mother has been abusing antidepressants while her father works overtime. They regularly visit a family therapist, though Echo finds the sessions to be largely unhelpful. Zoë's boyfriend, Marc, was a prime suspect in her murder, and though the actual killer had confessed and was convicted, Echo remains suspicious of Marc. One day, Echo comes across Marc's new car, and sees Zoë's diary in the passenger seat. She shatters the window with a nearby rock to retrieve the diary, and brings it home with her. Once Echo begins reading, she learns of Zoë's plans to move to Los Angeles or New York after graduation to begin a modeling career. She also learns of an unnamed traumatic incident that happened to Zoë involving her best friend Carley and two older men named Jason and Tom.  Echo enlists Marc’s help in infiltrating Jason’s house to uncover the truth about what happened to Zoë. After school, Echo accompanies Carley to Jason's, though Carley seems apprehensive about letting her do so. Echo's boyfriend Parker insists on going with Marc once he realizes that she may be in trouble. Marc creates a diversion by crashing his car into Jason's outside, leading to a violent confrontation between the two and allowing Echo to sneak into the basement unnoticed. There, she finds a laptop containing video files of Jason and Tom raping several underage girls, one of them being Zoë - Carley had molested Zoë in the video as well, revealing that she has been luring underage girls to the men in exchange for drugs. Echo is caught by Carley, who confesses that Jason and Tom film the videos for their private child pornography website of which Zoë's murderer was a subscriber. Jason had blackmailed Zoë, promising that he would delete the video if Zoë met with his alleged photographer friend for a private photo shoot, leading to her murder.  Tom and Jason barge into the basement, knock out Carley, and tie Echo to the bed. They conspire to leave the state, but as Jason begins packing, an injured Marc stands up and knocks him unconscious. Parker arrives just as Echo frees herself, and he calls the police. Tom enters the basement, but Echo knocks him out before he can attack them. The two men are subsequently arrested for their crimes while their site is shut down.  Upon finishing the last entry in Zoë's diary, Echo, now having closure, says a final goodbye to her sister and apologizes for not knowing her well enough. Sitting at a bench at Zoë's favorite spot that has been built in her honor, Echo begins writing her first entry in the diary Zoë had planned to give her as a birthday gift.