Anti-terrorist police teams prepare to raid a house in Manchester, England. As members of the team enter, the terrorists inside the house hear them.  One of the terrorists presses a button on his cell phone triggering an explosion - destroying the house.  Central Intelligence Agency case officer Roger Ferris is tracking a high-ranking terrorist leader called Al-Saleem in Iraq. He meets Nizar, a member of the terrorist organization who is prepared to offer information in return for asylum in North America.  Despite the objections of his boss, Ed Hoffman, Ferris agrees to shelter Nizar. Nizar is used as a pawn to draw out the rest of his cell; when Nizar is captured, Ferris is forced to shoot him to prevent him exposing the identities of Ferris and his associate, Bassam. Furious at Hoffman's refusal to act on the information Nizar provided about a safe house in Balad, Iraq, Ferris and Bassam go to search the safe house. Ferris observes men burning documents and DVDs.  He attempts to bluff his way in but is exposed. In the ensuing shootout and chase, Ferris and Bassam's vehicle is hit by an RPG. Ferris, with discs he salvaged from the fire at the safe house, is rescued by helicopter, but Bassam is killed in the explosion.  From the salvaged DVDs, Ferris learns, and tells Hoffman, that unknown terrorists in the UK plan to follow the bus bombings in Sheffield with more attacks, but apparently blew themselves up when they were discovered in Manchester.  From other intelligence Ferris harvested from the Balad safe house, Hoffman locates an Al-Saleem safe house in Jordan and orders Ferris to watch it. There, Ferris arranges to meet and negotiates a collaboration with Hani Salaam, head of the Jordanian General Intelligence Directorate.    Ferris gains the respect of Hani Salaam based on his ability to speak traditional Arabic fluently, Salaam also perceives Ferris to be more thoughtful and intelligent than the usual field operatives the Americans use.   Ferris and his CIA subordinate, Skip, undertake surveillance of the safe house along with Jordanian agents. Skip identifies a local asset on the scene whom he does not expect to see, Ziyad Abishi, and who prematurely establishes contact with one of the safe house terrorists and blows his cover. The terrorist flees to inform his colleagues and Ferris chases and kills him in a place and manner that implies the death is a random robbery. During the chase Ferris is bitten on the legs by dogs tied up in an alley, and is concerned the dogs might be rabid, he seeks treatment at a local clinic. While at the hospital Ferris meets an attractive nurse named Aisha.   Ferris lambastes Hoffman for running a side operation which he feels is interfering with and undermining the operational integrity of the primary operation, and tells Hoffman to stop. Ferris meets with Salaam, who has already had his agents confirm that those who remain at the safe house believe the terrorist whom Ferris eliminated was killed in a random robbery, and who has already spoken with Hoffman and told him the same thing Ferris did. Salaam has Ferris observe what Ferris thinks is torture, but which Salaam informs him is punishment mandated by "the King's espionage laws," and asks Ferris to tell Hoffman what he has seen.  In Europe terrorist bombers strike again at an Amsterdam flower market, killing 75 people and wounding hundreds more.  Having recognized one of the men living in the safe house as former small-time criminal Mustaffa Karami, Salaam takes Karami into the desert and coerces him into working for Jordanian intelligence, threatening to set him up as a collaborator if he does not co-operate. Hoffman asks Salaam to use Karami, but he refuses, believing a greater return will come later. Unbeknownst to Ferris and Salaam, Hoffman tells Skip to follow Karami and kidnap him. Karami escapes and notifies the terrorists in the safe house that it is being watched, and they abandon it. Salaam catches Ferris' associate Skip, accuses Ferris of having had knowledge of the move on Karami, blames Ferris' duplicity with him for the destruction of the safe house, and exiles Ferris from Jordan.  Ferris returns to Hoffman in Washington, and they devise a new plan to find Al-Saleem. Suspecting he is motivated more by pride than ideology, they stage a fake terrorist attack and set up Omar Sadiki, an innocent Jordanian architect, as its instigator, hoping Al-Saleem will come out of hiding and attempt to contact him. Al-Saleem sees TV news coverage of the attack and takes the bait. Salaam invites Ferris back to Jordan and shares his suspicions that Omar Sadiki is a terrorist, although Ferris feigns ignorance. Ferris later tries to save Sadiki from being kidnapped by Al-Saleem's henchmen but fails and sees his partner nearly killed in the subsequent car crash. Under interrogation, Sadiki denies any knowledge of the attack. He is later found beaten and killed.  Ferris goes back to his apartment and discovers that Aisha has been kidnapped. He desperately asks Salaam for help, admitting he fabricated Omar Sadiki's terrorist cell and the attack. Salaam refuses to help because of Ferris' lies. Ferris offers himself in exchange to Aisha's kidnappers and is brought to the middle of the desert, with Hoffman watching everything via a surveillance drone. At the exchange location, Ferris is surrounded by a group of SUVs, which circle him to create an obscuring dust cloud before picking him up. The dust cloud blocks Hoffman's view, so that he cannot determine which of the SUVs, now headed in different directions, is carrying Ferris.  Ferris is taken across the border to Syria, where he is to be interrogated by Al-Saleem. When Ferris asks Al-Saleem about Aisha, he is told that someone has lied to him and that he has been double-crossed. Ferris tells Al-Saleem that there is an infiltrator (Karami) in his organization who works for Ferris, and that, by association, Al-Saleem works for Ferris. Al-Saleem does not believe Ferris, breaks two of his fingers, turns on a video camera, and orders his execution. Salaam and his agents arrive at the last moment, saving Ferris' life. Al-Saleem is shown arrested in his own SUV by Marwan Se-Kia, Salaam's security officer.  Salaam visits Ferris in the hospital, and reveals that he had faked Aisha's abduction and orchestrated Ferris' capture by Al-Saleem using Karami as a go-between. Having lost the will to fight in this particular war, Ferris leaves the CIA and goes to see Aisha again.