Abby Sutton, a struggling photographer receives an Advent calendar from her grandfather. Abby isn't impressed at first, but she decides to take it home anyway. The calendar opens up on December 1. Abby begins to connect what is inside each day to what happens in real life, believing that the calendar is magical.  Meanwhile, Abby's friend Josh has been away around the world to focus on his photography but has come back to see Abby.  On December 1, Abby's calendar reveals a pair of boots, and Josh gifts her a pair of boots he bought for her in Italy. On December 2, Abby receives a Christmas tree in her calendar, and she meets a guy named Ty Walker after his tree falls off the roof of his car into her path. On December 3, Abby's calendar reveals a nutcracker, the costume of which Ty's daughter wears in the play put on by Abby's niece's school. The two run into each other again when Abby sprains her wrist and Ty is the doctor who treats her at the clinic. He asks her out, and she agrees to go on a date with him.  Abby continues dating Ty, which Josh is struggling with even though he has never expressed his feelings for Abby before. After dating Ty for a couple of weeks, Abby questions his feelings for her and shares her beliefs about the calendar with him. Ty admits he doesn't know Abby very well and criticizes her feelings about the calendar, causing Abby to break up with him.  While working taking pictures of kids meeting Santa, Abby is asked to take some pictures of the local mayor who is participating in a tree-lighting ceremony nearby. Josh inadvertently erases her pictures from the event, and Abby is fired. She and Josh get into an argument and stop seeing each other. Josh leaves to visit his parents in Florida.  Abby's sister puts up a number of her pictures in a school auction, and they are very popular. Her parents finally realize how talented a photographer she is, and the mayor herself won the bid for a photo session.  Unfortunately, the Advent calendar was inadvertently sold at the auction as well. The very next day, however, her calendar appears at her front door. Inside, she finds a note from Josh asking her to meet him on Christmas Day.  Josh surprises Abby by telling her he bought the studio so they can do photography together. Abby confesses her feelings for Josh, saying he has always been the guy for her, but she just didn't know it. Josh asks Abby what she got in her calendar that day - which turns out to be a snowflake - and the two share a kiss under the falling snow. Inside the studio, Abby gives Josh his Christmas present - a new camera. Josh tells Abby to say "cheese", but she tearfully tells him she loves him instead. Josh tells her he loves her too and they take a photo together.  A year later, it is the opening of their new studio. Abby and Josh are still a couple and are working as photographers inside the studio. They thank customers for coming to the grand opening, and the movie ends with panning over photos of the couple.