Having previously broken up with her boyfriend John, photographer Lee returns to John's house to retrieve her cameras. There, she discovers mounting evidence that John has not been home for a long time. Worried, she contacts the police, and Sergeant Goodman takes her report, though he suggests that John may simply not want to contact her. At an exhibition of her work, her daughter Jessie rebukes her efforts at reconciliation, and Lee mistakes a stranger for John. Haunted by her experiences in Somalia, Lee experiences a mental breakdown and leaves the bathroom completely naked. Her ex-husband and daughter escort her out and have her committed to an upscale psychiatric hospital.  At the hospital, Dr. Bloom expresses skepticism at Lee's insistence that she has killed John. Instead, Dr. Bloom suggests that Lee may have created a false memory to cope with the stress in her life. Peter, a defense attorney who blames himself for the subsequent murder of a legal aide by a murderer he helped to free, offers to put his office at her disposal. Lee is stunned by the resemblance between John and Peter, but tells Dr. Bloom that they are polar opposites in personality and demeanor. Flashbacks and psychotherapy sessions reveal that Lee and John met in a hospital after he was involved in a car accident, and she was the victim of a suicide bombing.  Peter hires a private investigator to research John's disappearance, and further flashbacks fill in details about John and Lee's romance. Intrigued by John's background as a wrongly-convicted felon, Lee invites him to pose for her as a model. Although wary of more attention from photographers, he agrees, and they begin to develop a bond. At the same time, Jessie develops a resentment toward their growing closeness. Later flashbacks reveal repressed memories that John had briefly dated Jessie before becoming involved with Lee. Furious, Lee breaks up with John, and Jessie wishes that her mother had died in the suicide bombing.  Peter, Lee, and Jessie all grow closer to each other and begin to unravel more drama. Jessie apologizes to her mother and admits that she knew there was an attraction between John and her mother, but Jessie still chose to pursue John. She swears her mother to secrecy, and Lee promises never to tell Peter. Meanwhile, Peter and Jessie go hiking together, and Lee panics when they do not return in time for a scheduled dinner. Peter's brief disappearance conjures all sorts of conspiracies in Lee's mind, and Sgt. Goodman expresses suspicion that either Lee or Jessie may be John's murderer after he finds a bracelet owned by Lee and worn by Jessie. After Peter cuts short an interview by Lee with the police, he reveals that he is dating Jessie.  Peter's research reveals evidence that John may still be alive. However, it turns out to be Thomas, John's houseguest, using John's credit card. Peter alerts Sgt. Goodman, who searches the premises and finds John's decomposing body and a suicide note. Freed of suspicion from both herself and the police, Lee begins to recover and soon leaves the psychiatric hospital; at the same time, she realizes that Peter and John look nothing alike, and the perceived similarities in appearance were only her imagination. Although she has promised Jessie to stay closer to home, she takes another job in the Middle East and asks Jessie to understand. Jessie finally accepts that her mother is a war photographer and gives her blessing. When Lee returns to active work, she is suddenly struck by the fear that all the positive moments in her life may be a false memory.