Hayley's Story American tourist Hayley becomes engaged to lawyer Michelangelo while spending a summer in Rome. Hayley's parents, Jerry and Phyllis, fly to Italy to meet her fiancé. During the visit, Michelangelo's mortician father Giancarlo sings in the shower and Jerry, a retired—and critically reviled—opera director, feels inspired to bring his gift to the public. Giancarlo is convinced by Jerry to audition in front of a room of opera bigwigs but performs poorly in this setting.  Jerry then realizes that Giancarlo's talent is tied to the comfort and freedom he feels in the shower. He stages a concert in which Giancarlo performs at the Teatro dell'Opera while actually washing himself onstage in a shower. This is a great success, so Jerry and Giancarlo decide to stage Pagliacci with an incongruous shower present in all scenes. Giancarlo receives rave reviews, but decides to retire from opera singing, preferring to work as a mortician and spend time with his family.  Antonio's Story Newlyweds Antonio and Milly plan to move to Rome after his uncles offer him a job in their family's business. Before meeting Antonio's relatives, Milly gets lost in Rome and loses her cell phone. After ending up at a film shoot, Milly meets Luca Salta, an actor she idolizes. Back at her hotel, Anna, a prostitute, is mistakenly sent to Antonio's room.  Before he can clarify the misunderstanding, his relatives arrive. To save face, Antonio convinces her to pose as Milly. The group goes to lunch, and then, to a party. While there, Antonio talks to Anna about how pure Milly is. After discovering he was a virgin before meeting Milly, she seduces him in the bushes.  Meanwhile, Luca tries to seduce Milly at his hotel room. Milly decides to have sex with him, but then an armed thief breaks in. Later, Luca's wife and a private investigator show up. Milly and the thief climb into bed and fool Mrs. Salta into believing the room is theirs while Luca hides in the bathroom. Once his wife has left, Luca runs off. The burglar flirts with Milly and she has sex with him instead. After returning to the hotel room, she and Antonio decide to return to their rustic hometown—but first they begin to make love.  Leopoldo's Story Leopoldo lives a mundane life with his wife and two children. Inexplicably, he wakes up one morning to discover that he has become a national celebrity. Paparazzi document his every move, wanting to know everything about him. Leopoldo even becomes a manager at his company and begins dating models and attending prestigious events. The constant attention wears on him, though. One day, in the middle of an interview, the paparazzi spot a man "who looks more interesting" and abandon Leopoldo. At first, Leopoldo welcomes the return to his old life, but one afternoon he breaks down, missing the attention.  John's Story John, a well-known architect, visits Rome with his wife and their friends. He lived there some 30 years ago, and would rather revisit his old haunts than go sightseeing with the others. While looking for his old apartment building, John meets Jack, an American architecture student who recognizes him. Jack happens to live in John's old building, and invites him to the apartment he shares with his girlfriend Sally. Throughout the rest of the story, John appears as a quasi-real and quasi-imaginary figure around Jack and makes frank observations of events. One day, Sally invites her best friend Monica to stay with them. Jack hits it off with her, and the two end up having an affair.  Jack, now besotted with her, plans to leave Sally, but decides to wait until she finishes her midterms. When that day comes, Monica receives the news that she has been cast in a Hollywood blockbuster. Becoming completely focused on preparing for the role, Monica forgets about traveling with Jack, who realizes how shallow she is. John and Jack later part ways. It is possible that John's whole experience was actually his memory of what happened to him 30 years ago. (It is loosely implied that Sally is now his wife.)