Tech company Astro-X has used their revolutionary energy system to stabilize the atmosphere and prevent the formation of sharknadoes, using cheap, clean reactors dubbed Astro-Pods. To celebrate the five year anniversary of the eradication of sharknadoes, Astro-X founder Aston Reynolds announces that he will be hosting the grand opening of his shark-themed hotel, "Shark World", in Las Vegas.  Fin Shepard has moved to a farm in Kansas named "April's Acres," where he lives with his mother Raye and his young son Gil. Fin travels to Las Vegas with his cousin Gemini to meet up with his son Matt, who has recently returned from deployment in Iraq. When Matt and his fiancée, Gabrielle, marry and skydive from a plane, a sandstorm develops, which cannot be defused by Astro-X. It absorbs the water and sharks from a giant tank located in Reynolds' hotel, creating a sharknado that floods the streets of Las Vegas. Fin, Gemini, Gabrielle, and Matt work together to survive the storm until it retreats into the desert.  After being rescued from the moon by Astro-X, Colonel Shepard has become an employee at Astro-X, working on the development of a weaponized mech suit with the aid of his granddaughter Claudia and a scientist at Astro-X named Wilford. However, both Colonel Shepard and Claudia are unaware that Wilford has reconstructed his daughter and Fin's wife, April, into a cyborg in order to save her life, following her death at the hands of a space shuttle's debris. Wilford has also told April that Fin and their family, who believe April to be dead, were killed by the debris in order to keep her safe inside of his laboratory.  Fin, Gemini, Matt, and Gabrielle decide to take a train back to Kansas, but the Las Vegas sharknado follows them and destroys the Hoover Dam. In order to lessen the amount of casualties by the flood, Reynolds blows up the Grand Canyon. Fin and the group meet up with Reynolds at an Astro-X facility in Arizona, where Reynolds attempts to recruit Fin to his side in order to recover from the negative publicity created from Astro-X's failure to stop the Las Vegas sharknado; however, Fin rejects this offer. He and the group end up in a small town in Texas, where they acquire a set of power tools to fight off an approaching sharknado.  The sharknado strikes an oil field and ignites, becoming a flaming tornado of fire dubbed a "firenado". The firenado strikes an electric transformer and turns into a "lightningnado", which reroutes its course for Kansas. Meanwhile, April learns of her family's survival and angrily confronts her dad and escapes his lab. A sharknado touches down in Yellowstone National Park and becomes a "lavanado", while a "hailnado" touches down at Astro-X's headquarters in San Francisco, from which Colonel Shepard and Claudia flee. When their car is picked up by the storm, April rescues them and reveals she's alive, to their surprise.  At the Kansas State Line, Fin and the group acquire a red-and-white self-driving car that is a 1958 Plymouth Belvedere named Christine, which they use to travel to April's Acres. There, an approaching sharknado forces Raye and Gil into their underground bunker before the sharknado becomes a "cownado", which later merges with the lightningnado. Fin and the group arrive to fend off the sharks, during which Gabrielle is killed. Fin, Gil, Gemini, and Matt seek shelter in the farmhouse, which is carried by the sharknado to Chicago. Reynolds uses new isotopes in his Astro-Pods to destroy the lavanado and the hailnado.  Colonel Shepard obtains a newly refurbished mech suit from Wilbur and convinces Reynolds to fly him, Claudia, and April to Fin's location in Chicago. There, April rescues Fin and Gil from the wreckage, while Astro-X agents find Gemini and Matt under the rubble. On board Reynolds' jet, April reunites with her family, allowing her to meet Gil for the first time. Meanwhile, Reynolds struggles to diffuse the lightningnado due to its electricity blocking their attempts. The situation worsens when the lightningnado strikes the Perry Nuclear Power Plant in Ohio, transforming it into a deadly "nukenado" filled with radioactive sharks.  Reynolds realizes that the only way to diffuse the nukenado is to transform it back into a regular sharknado so that the Astro-Pods will work on it. He also suggests that the engines of Col. Shepard's mech suit can be used to power a device to remove the radioactivity from the storm by drawing massive amounts of water into it. Fin realizes that the only location with enough water to work is Niagara Falls, so they travel there with the nukenado on their tail. Nearing the falls, Reynolds volunteers to jump from his jet in a squirrel suit to set off the device, which will reverse the water flow upward into the nukenado and cool it.  However, the device fails to have sufficient power, and the land below Reynolds cracks, sending him off the cliff into the water below. Colonel Shepard volunteers to pilot the mech suit to complete the plan, but is swallowed by a shark before he can put it on, as is Claudia and Matt. Fin puts on the suit and flies into the storm to fight through and reach the device. He manages to use the suit's power supply to activate the device, but he is severely injured in the process. Niagara Falls is reversed into the nukenado, neutralizing its radiation and rendering it a normal sharknado. The Astro-Pods are activated, destroying the storm.  Fin becomes unconscious and falls over the cliff and is swallowed by a shark, which is promptly swallowed by three more sharks and a blue whale in quick succession. Gil uses a chainsaw to cut open the whale and sharks, revealing Colonel Shepard, Claudia, and Matt all alive. Together, they pull out an unconscious Fin, who they revive using April's power supply and two sharks as an improvised defibrillator. Suddenly, the Eiffel Tower falls from the sky. Nova, who was earlier mentioned to be vacationing in Paris, emerges from the tower, causing the Shepards to realize that the sharknado crisis may now be a global problem.