Brothers John Solomon and Dean Solomon have bad luck with women, due largely to their sheltered upbringing. They were raised by their single father, Ed, at an isolated research facility in the Arctic, and did not move to civilization until they were grown men. Despite their social limitations, the brothers are generally good-natured, if naïve, and consider their father the most important person in their life, as they even followed in his footsteps with their geology career. However, their lives are thrown into turmoil when Ed falls into a coma.  The brothers decide that they may be able to get him to wake up by giving him a grandson, the one thing he has always wanted. To make this a reality, the brothers immediately set out to find a woman who can give them a baby. The brothers have disastrous results in their initial attempts. John proposes marriage to a woman on the first date and when Dean finds a woman who is willing to have a child for them, she is hit by a bus and killed. To keep a better eye on their father, they move him into their home. John is able to use this as an opportunity to talk to his neighbor, Tara, who agrees to watch over their father when they leave the apartment.  The brothers decide to expand their search to include adoption. However, due to the bizarre circumstances, the adoption agency denies the request. They try Craigslist next, and are able to find a surrogate mother named Janine. Janine is a suitable fit, but she has a clingy ex-boyfriend named James, and demands $12,000 for her role. Over the course of the next nine months, the brothers learn how to be responsible parents, and Janine begins to warm up to the bizarre duo. John continues to flirt with Tara, and convinces himself that she is interested.  After a birthing class, Janine realizes that she wants to keep the baby. She tells the brothers the bad news, which culminates in Dean revealing to John that he heard Tara insult John behind his back, thus forcing John to realize that Tara is not interested in him. The two have a major fight, but after a day, the brothers reconcile. The brothers attempt to get Janine to let them raise the child with her by paying for an exorbitantly long sky banner. Janine decides to raise the baby with the two brothers and John tells Tara that he is no longer interested in her.  Soon, the child is born, however it is obvious that the baby is James's, not Dean's. A year passes, and the brothers have gone into business with Janine and James, starting up a store called "Solomon Family Baby-Proofing", which sells safety equipment for new parents. In the corner of the store, their father is kept, still in his coma. After hearing the baby say "grandpa", Ed finally wakes up from his coma and sees his "grandson" for the first time. The brothers are convinced that their adventures led to their father waking up from his coma. Everybody celebrates as one big, happy family.