In London, a boy named Timmy starts secondary school in Peckham, Southwark, despite living in Deptford, Lewisham. His mother wants him to go to this school because of its good curriculum and so Timmy cannot be with his old friend Kiron, a trouble maker. On his first day, he befriends a boy named Marco and later on, two others named Dwayne and Hakeem.  Four years later, the boys are invited by classmate Karina to a party. Timmy, now 15, is reluctant to go but after he finds out that his longtime crush Leah is going, he reconsiders. Meanwhile in Deptford, the Ghetto Boys are attacked by the Peckham Boys on the former’s own grounds forcing them to flee. That night, Marco attempts to watch The Intent with his older brother Switcher who is the Peckham Boys leader but Switcher is called out to help fight the Ghetto Boys who have come for revenge. Later, the Peckham Boys are chased by the Ghetto Boys and the Ghetto second-in-command Galis is shot by Switcher in the back and is left to die when Ghetto leader Madder leaves due to the nearby police.  At the party, Timmy has a slow dance with Leah but is interrupted after Marco gets into a fight with another boy causing Karina's father to force everyone out. A few hours later, after Marco gets home, the police raid the apartment and arrest Switcher. The next day, Switcher is released after not having enough evidence against him and Timmy invites Leah to his house for the weekend to watch the final season of Game of Thrones while Marco goes to a college girl's house. Timmy and Leah have sex and the two start a relationship. Meanwhile, Marco runs into Kiron, who is now a Ghetto Boy nicknamed Killy, and has his arm broken by him. On Monday, Marco accuses Timmy of being an associate with Killy and ends their friendship after insulting Leah, who pushes him and is then slapped by Marco, who is then punched by Timmy.  Three months later, Marco, Dwayne and Hakeem keep away from Timmy and Leah who are now celebrating their three-month anniversary. Marco has now become a Peckham Boy alongside Switcher. That night, Timmy is attacked by a gang and Leah is killed by being pushed to the ground and hitting her head too hard when she tries to save him. Timmy then hits one of them who picks up a brick and hits Timmy on the head with it. He accidentally lets his hood slip and is revealed to be Marco. After that, Marco is arrested for Leah’s murder.  Three years later, Timmy, now 18, is now a Ghetto Boy and replaces Galis as the second-in-command and is Madder's younger sidekick Younger Madder. After Marco is released, he reveals he did not mean to kill Leah and he regrets it deeply. A few days later, Killy gets the drop on Marco, who is now nicknamed Bricker after hitting Timmy with a brick, the Ghetto Boys attack Marco and the Peckham Boys outside a nightclub. Madder is knocked out by Switcher who is stabbed by Timmy, who attempts to kill Marco but the gun jams, leaving him to escape. Switcher is now disabled and has to be in a wheelchair. Marco now vows to kill off Timmy.  A week later, after many gunfights, Switcher is visited by his cousin Tyrone from Tottenham. He explains that every gang has a weak member and they just have to wait until the Ghetto Boys' is revealed. Meanwhile, a Ghetto Boy nicknamed Tiny Madder who is a close friend of Timmy is encouraged by him to make music for Link Up TV. Madder plans an attack on Peckham but is stopped by Timmy saying it's the wrong time of day. Madder argues with Timmy and insults Leah. The two then storm off.  That night, Timmy and Madder reconcile and Killy gets the drop on Marco again. When they get there though, Madder finds his gun box empty. Killy is revealed to have betrayed Timmy and is joined by Tyrone. Killy explains that he was jealous that Timmy became Madder's younger sidekick when he felt like he should’ve been. Timmy, who is trapped in the van, is approached by Marco who starts pouring petrol on the van. Madder knocks Tyrone out and wrestles with Killy before shooting him in the head. Marco sets the van alight and flees. Despite Madder's best attempts, Timmy accepts his fate and goes to join Leah in the afterlife before dying by being asphyxiated by the fire. Madder finally gets the door open and pulls Timmy's body out. The police arrive and arrest Madder.  Later, as the film concludes, Madder becomes a youth worker and Switcher (his real name apparently revealed to be Jordan) commits suicide from a drug overdose after both Marco and Tyrone are arrested, and Timmy is buried with honours.  In a credit scene, Tiny Madder's music has become famous around the UK and vows to get revenge for Timmy by killing all the Peckham Boys.