Thelonious "Monk" Ellison is a black writer and professor in Los Angeles. His novels receive academic praise, but sell poorly, and publishers reject his most recent manuscript for not being "black enough". His university places him on temporary leave due to his brashness with students over racial issues, encouraging him to attend a literary seminar – and spend time with his family – in his hometown, Boston. At the seminar, Monk encounters author Sintara Golden, whose novel We's Lives In Da Ghetto is a bestseller due to leaning into black stereotypes.   In Boston, Monk reunites with his elderly mother Agnes and sister Lisa, a doctor. He enters a relationship with Coraline, a lawyer living across the street. One day, dining with Monk, Lisa suffers a heart attack, later dying in the hospital.  Monk's estranged brother, Cliff, returns for Lisa's funeral. Cliff is divorced after his wife discovered him sleeping with another man; he now practices casual sex and heavy drug-use. As the family mourns, Monk and Cliff worry about Agnes' deteriorating mental state, ultimately revealed to be Alzheimer's disease.  Overcome with personal and professional frustration, Monk impulsively writes a manuscript titled My Pafology, a send-up of expectations put on black writers, with a melodramatic plot involving deadbeat dads, gang violence, and drugs. After submitting it to publishers out of spite, Monk unexpectedly receives a $750,000 offer for pre-emptive rights. Requiring money for his mother's care, Monk agrees to publish the book under a pseudonym, "Stagg R. Leigh". His agent Arthur convinces him to adopt the persona of a violent, convicted felon when meeting with executives.   Acting as "Stagg", Monk lands a movie deal with successful film producer Wiley. However, following publishing executives' insulting comments, Monk attempts to sabotage the deal by demanding the title be changed to Fuck. Unexpectedly, the executives agree. Meanwhile, Monk is invited to judge for the New England Book Association's annual Literary Award in a "diversity push", and reluctantly agrees. One fellow judge is Sintara, who Monk is surprised to learn shares many of his views.   Monk experiences ups and downs: his relationship with Coraline develops; he moves Agnes into an assisted-living facility, where she adapts poorly; family housekeeper Lorraine asks him to walk her down the aisle at her wedding; and Cliff briefly returns to Boston but leaves following Agnes' homophobic comments. Amidst this turmoil, Fuck debuts as a #1 bestseller.   The public, including Coraline and Cliff, remain unaware "Stagg" is Monk, and the FBI contacts the publishing company for information, believing Stagg is a real fugitive on the run. Monk is offended when he finds Coraline enjoyed reading Fuck, leading to a heated argument and breakup.  On Lorraine's wedding day, Monk finds Cliff living in Agnes' vacant house with two other men. He never left Boston, and has instead been partying and doing drugs. Lorraine is nonetheless happy to have him attend the wedding. At the reception, Monk and Cliff discuss the legacy of their father's suicide, and Cliff encourages Monk to reconcile with Coraline.   Monk's publishing company submits Fuck for the Literary Award, forcing him to judge his own novel. The panel's white judges rave over Fuck, though Monk is surprised when Sintara calls the book "pandering". Monk agrees, but later questions her book, calling it "trauma porn", inauthentic to Sintara's middle-class background. Sintara counters that she extensively researched her book and is simply "giving the market what it wants", adding that it isn't her fault if white audiences form stereotypes based on one book.   At the award ceremony, Fuck receives the grand prize; Monk walks to the stage to accept, and reveal he is "Stagg". The screen cuts to black: it is revealed that the story up to this point has been Monk's screenplay based on his experiences, to submit to Wiley's production company as an alternative to the Fuck film adaptation. Wiley likes the screenplay but encourages Monk to write a different ending.   The film then cycles through multiple endings, including one where police show up to the ceremony to arrest Stagg, and shoot Monk fatally on stage. Wiley – also busy making the "blaxploitation" film Plantation Annihilation – loves it, and the film moves into production. Monk drives away from the studio with Cliff.