High school senior Amber Appleton lives in Portland, Oregon with her mother Becky. They are temporarily homeless after Becky's boyfriend Oliver is abusive, so end up sleeping in the school bus she drives.  Amber is very busy, including volunteer teaching an ESL class and working in an old age home, where she has bonded with Joan, a resident. She also plans an annual school variety show, the proceeds going to charity.   Amber is invited to audition for the drama program at Carnegie Mellon University, her deceased father's alma mater. With Becky's encouragement, she spends money they had been saving for rent for the flight.   Unfortunately, Becky is fired when it's discovered that they have been living in the bus. She decides to return to Oliver, but Amber refuses to join her. Sleeping on a park bench, Amber subsequently gets robbed.  Confiding with her friend Ty about her situation, he takes Amber to his family's vacation house to stay and help her prepare for her audition. She tells him that her father's death caused her mother to struggle and for them to be evicted and move in with Oliver, who eventually became abusive. Becky, who is an alcoholic, frequently suffers relapses while with Oliver.   With the help of Donna, the mother of her friend Ricky, Amber tells Becky that she does not feel safe living with Oliver. They have an argument, Becky leaves and Amber stays at Donna's house. The following morning, police officers come to Amber's high school to inform her that her mother and Oliver have been killed in a single-car, drunk driving car accident.  On the day of her audition, Amber discovers that her dog Bobby is sick. She misses her flight to Pittsburgh to take him to the vet, where she learns he requires expensive surgery. She drops out and begins working full-time in order to afford the surgery, forgoing a rescheduled audition and losing contact with her friends. Ty confronts her and accuses her of rejecting help from others, and they stop speaking.  She plans to skip the variety show, but Ty surprises her at work, revealing that the proceeds will go towards paying for the dog's surgery. All of Amber's friends perform in the show, including the students from her ESL class. At the end of the evening, the fundraiser is still $2,000 short, but suddenly receives an anonymous donation of $200,000.   At the home, Joan reveals that she is the one who made the donation, as she considers her as family. Amber gets another audition at Carnegie Mellon, and she and Ty share a kiss before she leaves.