A battered Arab man named Jahan Sufi is tortured by having spikes hammered into his arms, and when asked for names, he blurts out "Anoush Karagozian." Anoush is a woman of French and Armenian descent who works as a cocktail waitress in Los Angeles. Government operatives abduct Anoush and interrogate her about the "ragheads" in her life, like her boss, Reza Bayoul, her ex-fiancé, Jahan Sufi (who she was going to convert for before marrying) and her current boyfriend, Shazad Mohamaed Sousa. After being made to sign a contract which stipulates that she agrees to serve the interests of the United States government, Anoush is sedated and brought to a black site that is overseen by a man known only as Mr. Green.  Anoush, along with the site's other detainees, is subjected to a battery of tortures, including incessant noise, being forced to consume raw meat (including a pig's head) and toilet water, psychic driving, a mock execution, electric shocks, being repeatedly forced to watch abstract and graphically violent footage of things like war crimes and Nazi human experimentation while drugged with hallucinogens, having one of her nipples sliced off, a staged rescue, and being sealed in a box and left to wallow in her own excrement for days while hooked up to an IV. At one point, Mr. Green attempts to force Anoush to kill Jahan, and when she refuses, he tries again later, this time with a serial rapist, killer, and implied cannibal named Ron. Ron and Anoush are locked in a cell together and starved, and when Ron passes out after beating Anoush in frustration, Anoush uses strips of her own clothes to hogtie and strangle him, to the approval of Mr. Green.  Mr. Green brings Anoush into his office and has her eat dog food while he uses fake documents to gaslight her into believing that she is really a U.S. intelligence agent named "Sharon" who enemy combatants have brainwashed into thinking that she is Anoush Karagozian. As a final test to see if Anoush will be useful as a tool in the war on terror, Mr. Green coerces her into shooting her own mother, and when Anoush tries and fails to commit suicide afterward, Mr. Green congratulates her, stating, "You did it, Sharon. You killed the thing you love. And you were willing to die for us too." A pair of agents release Anoush and arrange for her to be hit by a car as a cover for all of her injuries before leaving her with a special cellphone that she is to use to keep in touch with Mr. Green. The film ends with Anoush huddled in the fetal position, mindlessly repeating random words over and over again after calling Mr. Green to inform him that Shazad has made plans to meet with friends who are visiting from Lebanon.