The film takes place in a universe where anthropomorphic bears coexist with humans. The Country Bears, an all-bear country rock band, disbanded in 1991 after years of popularity. Beary Barrington, a preteen bear adopted and raised by a human family, feels different. His adoptive parents tell him his family love him unconditionally and that differences lead everyone to their purposes. When Beary's adoptive older brother, Dex, tells him the truth about his background, Beary runs away and ventures out to the Country Bear Hall, the Country Bears' former concert hall. Beary learns from the caretaker Big Al and the band's manager Henry Dixen Taylor that Country Bear Hall is threatened with destruction by greedy banker Reed Thimple. After many attempts to save Country Bear Hall, Beary suggests that Henry hold a benefit concert, and the two set out to reunite the group with the band's bus driver and drummer, Roadie. The Barringtons enlist police officers Cheets and Hamm to find Beary.  First, they recruit Fred Bedderhead, the harmonica and electric bass player, who works as a security guard on the set of pop singer Krystal's latest music video. Henry needs promotion, and Beary suggests the group's former promoter Rip Holland, whom Henry claimed had "stolen" the Country Bears. Henry phones Rip, who gladly agrees to promote the show. Fred mentions a talent show history where they defeated an armpit musician named Benny Boggswaggle, who angrily struck Zeb Zoober with a wooden chair. Thimple approaches Big Al and learns about the Country Bears' plan and about Holland promoting the show.  Next, they approach the band's fiddler Zeb Zoober, who has spent years drinking honey and owes a $500 bar tab. Zeb wants to return but must pay his debt. Beary places a bet to let Zeb off the hook by beating the house band in a playoff. Zeb starts his performance poorly but wins after warming up. Officer Cheets and Officer Hamm approach Big Al for directions to where Beary went. Because of miscommunication, the officers think the bears have kidnapped Beary.  Tennessee O'Neal, the one-string guitar player, is now a marriage counselor. He is very reluctant to rejoin the band because he wants to reconcile with his ex-girlfriend Trixie St. Claire, the band's keyboard player. After being chased by Officers Cheets and Hamm through a car wash, the Country Bears stop at a motel where Trixie St. Claire is performing. Tennessee sings a duet with her, and she comes with the band to their reunion.  They finally head out to find Ted Bedderhead, the lead vocalist and guitarist. They learn from Elton John that Ted, who appears very wealthy, is at a wedding at the local country club. After Ted has the other Country Bears members leave, Fred learns that he is only a wedding singer. Fred knocks out Ted and drags him onto the bus. Zeb claims Ted to be the reason for the band's disestablishment, but Ted claims he held them together. Ted says the real problem was Zeb's drinking, Tennessee's emotional outbursts, and Fred's immaturity. Beary reminds them that they claimed each other to be family, but Ted says it was meaningless publicity and tells him that he knows nothing about the real bears and that they are not a family. Beary realizes the real meaning of family and returns home, where he is happily reunited with his family.  The Country Bears read Beary's school essay about them and realize that Beary was right. Reconciling with Beary, Ted insists that they allow him to join them during the concert, but Thimple kidnaps the rest of the Country Bears and steals the bus. Thimple reveals he is really Benny Boggswaggle and seeks vengeance on The Country Bears for stealing his chance at fame. Beary, his family and Ted track down and rescue the band, and they head to the concert together.  There, they discover that Thimple paid Rip to not promote the show. Big Al suddenly arrives and reveals, to everyone's surprise, that he promoted the show himself, and everyone is in a different parking lot. A surge of people rush in. Defeated, Thimple is thrown out of the building while vowing that his feud is not over. The money raised from the concert is enough to save the hall, and the Country Bears perform with Beary as a new member of the band.