Many years ago a servant woman, Clara, falls in love with a wealthy blue blood, Ralph Wilhern, and later becomes pregnant with his child. However, his family disapproves of Ralph's intent to marry her. At the urging of his parents, Ralph marries another woman. Clara, distraught, commits suicide by jumping off a cliff. Enraged, Clara's mother, the town witch, places a curse on the Wilhern bloodline; the next daughter to be born will have the face of a pig, and the only way the curse may be broken is when "one of her own kind" learns to love her. For generations, only sons are born into the family until the birth of Franklin and Jessica Wilhern's daughter, Penelope. Ashamed of her daughter's face, Jessica claims Penelope died as an infant and shuts her away in their mansion. Penelope turns eighteen, and her parents begin attempting to seek suitors, believing the love of another blue blood is the way to break the curse.  Seven years pass, and all of the suitors have fled in terror upon seeing Penelope's true face, including Edward Humphrey Vanderman III. Conspiring with tabloid reporter, Lemon, in order to photograph Penelope to prove her existence, Vanderman pays a supposed young blue blood, Max Campion, to pose as a new suitor for Penelope, hiding a camera in his jacket. After having conversations through a one-way mirror, Max and Penelope develop genuine feelings for each other; however, when Max sees her face, he is shocked—but not frightened—and accidentally triggers the camera. Regretful about his attempts to exploit Penelope, Max calls off his agreement with Lemon and Vanderman—though Jessica and the matchmaker Wanda catch him doing so—and destroys the camera. Penelope begs him to marry her, promising it will lift the curse, but Max declines.  Tired of the match-making and inspired by Max's conversations about the outside world, Penelope runs away from her home and journeys out into the city, selling photos of herself to Lemon while covering her nose with a scarf in public to keep anonymous. She is spotted by her parents and runs back to the bar she frequents, before passing out, leading her friend Annie to remove the scarf and reveal her as the supposedly dead Penelope Wilhern to the other guests. Penelope becomes an overnight celebrity, gaining adoring fans who are not disgusted by her face.  Meanwhile, Edward’s father, having seen the public's fondness for Penelope and embarrassed by his son's vocal cruelty toward her, coerces Edward into proposing to her. Lemon eventually discovers that the real Max Campion is imprisoned for armed robbery, while the Campion they have been working with is actually a man named Johnny Martin, who Lemon had mistaken for Max when the table that Johnny was also at was pointed out to him. Lemon reveals this information to Jessica and Wanda, but Jessica decides to not let Penelope know the truth, believing that Johnny would not be able to break the curse, as he isn't truly a "blue blood." During her and Edward's wedding, Penelope realizes that she does not want to marry simply to break the curse and that she likes herself the way she is. This breaks the curse, as Penelope has been loved by "one of her own kind" – herself – and her pig snout and ears disappear.  Sometime later, Penelope becomes an elementary school horticulture teacher, and the public's interest in her fades. She eventually learns the truth about Johnny from Wanda. She reunites with Johnny, who was unaware that the curse was broken, at a Halloween party while wearing a pig mask—as many partygoers were also wearing. Johnny kisses Penelope, and she takes off her mask, revealing to him that she had the power to lift her curse all along.  The Wilhern butler, Jake, is revealed to be the witch who cast the original curse and casts one final spell to render Jessica mute for "a while," before quitting his position. While Johnny and Penelope are at a park, Lemon discreetly approaches the two and attempts to take a photo to prove that Penelope's curse has been lifted but ultimately decides against it upon seeing how happy they are and leaves them alone.