An oil refinery in Iraq owned by Chinese firm Unicorp gets attacked by mercenaries led by Owen Paddock, ex-special forces soldier. "Dragon" Luo Feng leads his private security company in an effort to evacuate the civilian employees in a convoy consisting of eleven buses along the Highway of Death to the safety of the Green Zone. Before entering the Highway of Death, Feng talks to his daughter, Mei about protecting her, but she resents him because he wasn't there by his wife's side during her death due to a top secret mission. Although Feng ensures Mei he was protecting his country and family, she still says that he wasn't there and that she will never forgive him for it.  Meanwhile, needing money to fix a well in a rural village, former US Marine Chris Van Horne reluctantly joins his mercenary brother, Henry in attacking the convoy, who claim they are tracking down a man responsible for attacking them years earlier. The mercenaries create a massive sandstorm by using a rocket truck and use it to cover their attack, in which they steal two of the eleven buses. After Feng's convoy fends them off and clears the sandstorm, Feng discovers that five civilians of his have been kidnapped from Bus 8, including Professor Chang and her son.   Chris confronts Henry and Owen concerning the kidnapping, the latter telling him that he intends to reactivate the refinery and profit off the oil trade as Unicorp wouldn't give them anything after nine years. After an enraged Chris leaves, Owen shoots Henry for failing to kill Feng along with two other merceries who were loyal to Chris. Feng tracks down Chris and confronts him, but learns about his intentions in taking the job and helping the children in his village after finding out his father had been killed in a rebel ambush that Chris had encouraged as a private security group at the Highway of Death.  After Owen scares Professor Chang into cooperating by killing one of the hostages and threatening her son, he sends his men to find her bag which contains the codes, which Chris accidentally took with him earlier. Feng talks to his daughter by saying that he knows he can trust Chris as he reminded him that the village is his family now. Hiding the children after Feng hears some footsteps, Chris and Feng try to fight their way to get rid of Owen's men. However, Chris gives up what Owen's men are looking for to protect the village. Chris and Feng return to the refinery after hearing the bag contains the codes that Owen needs to do the biggest oil heist known to man by putting the oil in tankers so that he can deliver them to a ship by the real perpetrators.   Chris pursues Owen and his group with Mei as she discreetly tailed him from the village in one of Chris's cars, with Feng following closely in the rocket truck. Going off road, Mei accidentally crashes Chris's car and Mei & Chris get picked up by Feng. In the ensuring battle, Owen's plans are foiled after the rocket truck blows up one of the truck tankers which causes a chain reaction between the other ones.   Owen is killed in an ensuing car chase after beating the paddle on his atv, thinking he would be able to get out at the side of a cliff. Feng & Mei mourn Chris's death after making amends to each other but in the midst of it all, it's revealed that Chris had survived. After getting picked up by Feng's soldiers, Feng's team arrest the perpetrators behind the oil heist on the ship. At the village, Chris and Feng fix the well and are informed of a new mission in which Feng offers Chris to join. Chris accepts the offer, setting off on a new adventure.