Nick Smith and Natalie Russo are single, living in the same city. On opposite sides of a fountain, they are both encouraged to make a wish. Their coins touch underwater, and they both feel odd.  Natalie's best friend Sharla pushes her to make the restaurant she inherited from her mother her own. She brings Mario, a chef from Italy, to revamp the recipes. He is hot-headed and initially uncompromising so Natalie fears he'll intimidate her regulars.  Nick's mom Charlotte has been pushing him to get over Jessa, his cheating ex. Concerned he never has second dates, she regularly sets him up. The latest is Lori Beth, someone he dated when 12. Charlotte gets them tickets to a comedy performance. At work, although a trained architect, Nick is only a draftsman. Frustrated he's underappreciated, he quietly submits his own proposal for the Green Bridge Award.  Natalie and Nick fall asleep in their respective living rooms and dream about meeting at the Hayward Fountain. They introduce themselves and have instant chemistry, but when they touch they both awaken.  The next day, at the restaurant, Natalie tells Sharla about the real-feeling dream. Although Sharla's cousin is interested, she doesn't care. Sharla is drawn to Mario, and Natalie isn't. He reminds Natalie their mothers had been friends in Italy, and passes on his mother's condolences.  Nick's date with Lori Beth goes badly. She's over eager, sending hourly reminders, photos of potential outfits and ccing his mother. She continues trying too hard, reminiscing about moments they'd shared 15 years ago. Nick walks her to her car, clearly not interested in seeing her again.  Again, Natalie and Nick dream together, this time on a rooftop. She wants to take risks and is tired of playing it safe. He tells her about the bridge he's designed for the contest and she shares an amaretto cookie. Balanced on the roof's edge, when they try to kiss they fall, and both wake on the floor.  Natalie tells Sharla about the second dream, that she can't stop thinking about him, and is anxious to go back to sleep to see him again. In their third dream they stroll all night, encouraging each other's careers. They both admit they are starting to have feelings for one another.  Before Nick can fall asleep, Jessa calls him to kill a rodent, and seduces him, so Natalie doesn't find him. Upset, she decides to avoid sleeping the next night, so she goes dancing with Mario. He kisses her at the end and says their moms always thought they'd be together. Then Nick goes to find her, but is now alone.  Nick dines at Natalie's restaurant but they don't see each other. Finding two little sketches on the floor, one of his bridge, the other of Hayward Fountain, she goes to the fountain. There, she finds the florist she'd met there five days ago. She tells her, according to fountain mythology, they have exactly seven days to turn their dreams into a reality. When asked if it'd worked for her, she suggests she find a real man and forget the legend.  That night, Natalie meets Nick in their dreams and tells him she can't meet him again as he's obviously not real. She tells him that they only have one night left to fulfill the myth, but she fears it will break her heart, so she vows not to sleep the next night.  At Nick's parents' 40th anniversary, his dad mentions the Hayward fountain legend and his mother tells him to take a leap of faith. Nick finally quits at the architecture firm. At the restaurant, seeing a spark between Sharla and Mario, Natalie suddenly realises she must find Nick, although an important critic is there. He simultaneously decides he must find her, so leaves the award ceremony.  Nick arrives to the fountain first, accidentally dropping the invite. Natalie misses him, but finds it and heads to the ceremony. He seeks her by visiting every Italian restaurant in town. Nick finds  Russos, but Sharla doesn't know where Natalie is. Joe at the ceremony can't help her either. Both go the fountain, find each other and kiss.  The next day, Natalie introduces Nick to the florist.