Colin Evans has been sentenced to prison for 15 years for manslaughter in the state of Tennessee. He is eligible for parole after five years, and during his parole hearing, Colin claims he is a changed man and has been rehabilitated; but the parole board denies his release, claiming that he is not trustworthy enough, and is sent back to prison for another five years until the next hearing. On returning to prison, Colin kills the correctional officers transporting him and escapes with the van.  In Atlanta, Terri Granger is a stay-at-home mother. Her best friend Meg suggests a "girls' night" to cheer Terri up after her husband Jeffrey abruptly leaves for a family visit, as she knows Terri's relationship with Jeffrey has been suffering.  Colin stalks his ex-fiancée Alexis and witnesses her meeting another man at an outdoor cafe. Colin follows her home where they argue violently, resulting in him murdering Alexis. Later that day, Colin loses control of his car and crashes into a tree during a storm. Walking down the road, he notices Terri's house. He asks her if he can use her phone for a tow truck. Apprehensive at first, she decides to help him, and eventually invites him inside. Meg later arrives and is shocked by Colin's presence.  When Terri leaves momentarily to comfort her baby, Meg and Colin are left alone; Colin excuses himself for a cigarette break, but Meg follows him. Colin suggests he is having an affair with Terri, but Meg does not believe him. As she begins to call out to Terri, Colin quickly grabs a shovel and bashes Meg in the head with it, killing her.  As Terri returns, Colin tells her that Meg left, but Terri is suspicious, especially when she sees Meg's umbrella on the stand. Alarmed, she rushes to the kitchen to call the police, only to find out that Colin has disconnected all the wires and hidden all her knives. Terri rushes into her daughter Ryan's bedroom to find Colin playing with her. As they exit the bedroom, Terri hits him with a fire extinguisher, making him fall down the stairs; she runs to get her children, but Colin has recovered. He tells her to return the children to their rooms and reveals a gun. In a brief moment where she strikes him unconscious, she manages to flee to her home office and dials 911 for help. Colin recovers and discovers her in the office. She begs him to leave, explaining that the police are coming and that his blood is all over her kitchen (because she managed to cut him earlier). Colin forces her to take the children into her vehicle and drive away with him. While leaving the garage, Terri sees Meg's dead body on the floor.   Colin makes Terri drive to Alexis' house, and introduces Terri to his dead ex-fiancée. The high winds from the storm cause Terri's car alarm to activate; worried that the noise will attract attention, Colin ties her up while he goes to check on the car. Terri answers Alexis' phone as it starts to ring and is surprised to hear Jeffrey, who is calling Alexis to find out why she has not arrived at the hotel for a rendezvous with him. Terri realizes that he was not out of town with his father and has been having an affair with Alexis. She also realizes that her encounter with Colin was not coincidental as he wants revenge on Jeffrey because of his affair with Alexis. Terri tells her husband the truth and has him call 911. She misleads Colin into thinking that she and her children have escaped. When Colin finds her, she attacks him, grabbing his gun and shooting him until he falls out of a window.  The police arrive with Jeffrey; he apologizes to Terri about the affair, but she punches him in the face and leaves him afterward. Sometime later, a much more confident Terri returns to her career and has moved into a new house with her children.