On the last day before summer vacation, students devise an elaborate senior prank, and faculty members try to survive the chaotic day as best they can. Meanwhile, English teacher Andy Campbell hears rumors of downsizing of all departments. Given the fact that he has a pregnant wife and a child, this renders him extremely anxious.  History teacher Ron Strickland later asks him for his assistance in a class. During it, a student named Neil secretly uses his smartphone to prank Strickland. Enraged, Strickland grabs a fire axe and destroys Neil's desk, sending the class panicking from the room.  Both Campbell and Strickland are brought to Principal Tyler's office to discuss the matter. Despite initially deciding to keep what happened a secret, after Tyler threatens to fire them both if no one steps forward, Campbell tells the truth, resulting in the loss of Strickland's job. In retaliation, Strickland challenges Campbell to a fist fight after school.  Convinced that he does not stand a chance against Strickland, Campbell tries to set matters straight. He bribes Neil into giving a false testimony to Principal Tyler in order to clear Strickland's name. The plan works, and Strickland gets reinstated.  Campbell and Strickland receive an emergency call from school counselor Holly. The two meet up with her in and discover she tricked them into coming there so they could talk through their issues. When Campbell tells Strickland that he was able to get him his job back, Strickland is further enraged. He states that Campbell should have told him about this plan before acting, citing the mishandling of the school system. The fight is still on.  Campbell tries to call 9-1-1 for help, but after learning the reason for his call, the operator laughs and hangs up on him. After seeking the advice of Holly and Coach Crawford, Campbell resolves to have Strickland removed from the campus before the day's end. As a last resort, Campbell threatens Neil into giving him MDMA. Campbell then plants it in Strickland's satchel. He calls the police in the hopes of having Strickland arrested, but the attempt is botched and both teachers are incarcerated.  The two share a cell with other inmates, and Campbell secretly tricks an enormous inmate into giving Strickland a beating, but only when signaled. Campbell then returns to Strickland, who decides to call the fight off after everything that they have been through that day. The inmate nonetheless attacks Strickland, who easily knocks him out. Upon realizing Campbell's actions, Strickland declares the fight back on. The two are then released after the police discover the drug used to frame Strickland was only aspirin.  Campbell heads back to meet up with the school board, Tyler, and Superintendent Johnson, but learns that his colleagues have all been fired. Campbell is one of the few to remain at his position. However, Campbell stands his ground and voices his complaints about the public school system not receiving the support it truly needs. He heads over to Ally's talent show, where her rendition of Big Sean's "I Don't Fuck with You" inspires him to finally stand up to Strickland.  In the school parking lot, Campbell and Strickland engage in a frenzied fight that is dragged throughout the school. During it, Strickland answers Campbell's phone and learns that Maggie is about to give birth. Showing mercy on Campbell, Strickland drives him to the hospital, thus ending the fight on friendly terms.  That summer, Tyler arrives at the Campbell household to tell Campbell that the publicity and public outcry the fight generated has forced the Department of Education to put more effort and money into their schools, and he must rehire Campbell and Strickland. Campbell accepts on the condition that the rest of his colleagues be reinstated as well. As the new school year begins, the faculty return to their respective positions. Campbell and Strickland, now best friends, are ready to enforce learning with Campbell being much more assertive towards the students.  In a post-credits scene, Crawford is seen flirting with the 911 operator in person. After rapping for her, Crawford realizes that he does not know her name.