Militarized dancers greet Mr. Morale, who sits alone on a piano with a puppet ("United in Grief"). His therapist, Helen Mirren, introduces herself as his guide throughout the performance and informs him that he has been living in his comfort zone for over 1,855 days. She suggests that it is time for him to leave ("N95", "Element"). Kodak Black introduces the audience to the "Big Stepper" as Mr. Morale begins to address his internal struggles, which includes suffering from a sex addiction and committing infidelity ("Worldwide Steppers"). He downplays the severity of his actions ("Backseat Freestyle", "Rich Spirit"). Mirren scolds him for letting his ego get the best of him once again, and asks if he needed a reminder of the events that transpired the last time he employed defence mechanisms ("Humble").  After receiving a recommendation from his partner, Whitney Alford, Mr. Morale begins to take therapy seriously and unpacks his childhood trauma ("Father Time"). Mirren does not blame him for being a product of his environment, but advises that it is his sole responsibility to maneuver through his pain ("M.A.A.D City"). As a silhouette of a couple arguing and reconciling is shown, Mr. Morale formally welcomes the audience to the show ("Purple Hearts", "King Kunta"). Before continuing with his journey, he decides to check the temperature of the crowd ("Loyalty" / "Swimming Pools (Drank)"). He then encounters a female dancer ("Bitch, Don't Kill My Vibe"), who later seduces him with her peers ("Die Hard"). Mirren is very disappointed with his relapse and asks him if he needs to remember who he is ("DNA"). As Alford realizes that he is nearing a breakthrough, Mirren counsels him to get past himself in order to move further ("Count Me Out").  Following a period of interacting with the audience ("Money Trees", "Love"), Mr. Morale is enclosed in a small box with four dancers, each wearing hazmat suits. Mirren instructs him to take a COVID-19 test, and assures him that it is for his own good ("Alright"). She then asks the audience if they were entertained, before informing him that he had been contaminated. He is then cleansed with non-lethal smoke and elevated into the air ("Mirror", "Silent Hill"). As Mr. Morale is lowered back to the ground, he encounters Baby Keem and lets himself loose ("Vent" / "Range Brothers", "Family Ties"). Mirren notices that the audience is now following him, and warns him that with great power comes great responsibility ("Crown", "Mr. Morale" with Tanna Leone). Using the knowledge he obtained during therapy, Mr. Morale sheds his savior complex ("Savior"). He thanks the audience for attending the show, flashes a smile, and is escorted from the stage. Mirren congratulates him for escaping the box and wonders if he can stay out for good.