Cat Storm is a teenager attending an elite preparatory school in 1980s Manhattan. Cat begins to fall in with the popular crowd at her prep school, abandoning her rebellious longtime friend, Delilah Milford, who is expelled from the school. Cat surrounds herself with some of the school's most popular students, befriending Grace Bailey, an English exchange student, and attending holiday parties held by Peg which are often frequented by Kenny, an ephebophile who supplies cocaine to the teenagers and tries to have sex with the young men.  Amidst struggles at home between her divorced parents, Cat becomes attracted to William Sellers, a delinquent who comes from an abusive household, and who also is significantly less wealthy than his peers. William and Cat pursue a brief relationship, which he ends, leaving Cat distraught. After some of Cat's antisemitic friends find out her father is Jewish, she is ostracized, and only accepted by the prim Eloise Logan, who befriends her.  Hearing about a party hosted by Delilah on the beach in The Hamptons, Cat goes to stay the night with Eloise at her house, using it as an opportunity to attend the party. There, she confronts Delilah, and the two argue about Cat abandoning her, but make up. Delilah walks to a nearby gay bar operated by Kenny, where she tries to find a ride back to the city for her and Cat. While there, she stumbles upon William receiving oral sex from a male drug dealer. William chases after Delilah and confronts her in the woods on her way back to the beach, and the two get into an argument. He pushes her, causing her to hit her head on a rock. Delilah screams at him and threatens to press charges, and, in a panic, he beats her to death.  The following morning, after searching for Delilah, Cat discovers that Delilah's body has been found and William arrested. After school that afternoon, the paparazzi and reporters interview the students with questions about Delilah, and they all deem her "reckless" and have little to say of her. The film ends with Cat and her mother resolving their own familial conflict and her mother apologizing to her in Central Park.