Justin (Ward Roberts) sits inside a pentagram. He has obvious claw marks on his chest. He cuts his hand and uses a spell from a book to summon the crippled demon Lo (Jeremiah Birkett). Justin orders Lo to search Hell for his girlfriend April (Sarah Lassez), who was abducted by a demon. Lo argues that the task will be impossible, but eventually concedes and asks for information about April. Justin describes his first meeting with the endearing, quirky April; the memory is depicted as a Vaudeville production.  The demon Jeez, who abducted April, arrives. It tells Justin that April is actually a murderous demon who abandoned Hell in order to experience human love. Justin denies this despite Lo admitting that it knew April as a demon. Justin insults Lo and both demons leave. The cut on Justin's hand begins to speak and argues with him about April.  Lo returns and tells Justin that April is imprisoned and cannot be retrieved. Instead, it presents two damned souls who describe being tortured after April tricked them into selling their souls. Lo reveals that its legs were crushed when April returned to Hell. Justin concludes that Lo helped her escape and was punished. Lo tells him to think about her if he wants to see her again, prompting a flashback of their first Christmas together.  Justin gives April a rare edition of Faust. She seems confused by the concept of gift-giving but becomes excited about reading for amusement, which appears to be a novelty to her. April becomes confused when she realizes Justin expected a gift in return. She gives him the only thing she has: a book on demon summoning. She orders him not to open it, and to burn it if she ever leaves.  Lo says it was obvious April was a demon. Justin's hand suggests that April was manipulating Justin. Lo tells Justin that his condition will worsen the longer he stays in the circle, and he should undo the spell and leave. A waiter appears and offers Justin a drink. Lo tells Justin that the drink will allow him to travel through Hell to April, asking if Justin thinks she is worth it. Justin downs the drink, and Lo smugly tells him it was poison.  Lo leaves and Jeez returns. Jeez says the poison is slow-acting, and if he stops the spell and seeks medical treatment he will survive. Justin refuses to leave without April. Jeez asks what love is. Unable to define it, Justin merely smiles, causing Jeez to leave in irritation.  The hand and Justin argue over whether it would be better to live alone or die for April. Justin becomes distressed and decides to cut the hand off, but Lo interrupts him. Lo and Justin argue about April's true nature and whether she is worth the effort Justin is going to. Justin forces a third flashback.  Justin comforts April after she wakes up from a nightmare. Jeez appears and attacks April, fatally slashing Justin's chest in the process. April agrees to return to Hell with Jeez if she can save Justin. She leaves Justin the demon summoning book and takes the Faust book with her.  Lo admonishes Justin for not burning the book. Justin becomes philosophical about the differences between humans and demons. Lo laughs at this, infuriating Justin. Justin reasserts his control over Lo and orders it to find April. Lo leaves, and Justin begins to cry while looking at a picture of April.  April appears in front of Justin and forgives him for not burning the book. Justin affirms his love for her and his determination to bring her back. She kisses him, extracting the poison from his body. She tells Justin that she cannot come with him, because demons would pursue her and put Justin in danger. Justin offers to stay in Hell with her but April refuses. She begins to leave. As she looks back, she becomes Lo, revealing that they were the same person all along.  The next day, Justin burns the book.