Nate Gibson collapses shortly after diving into a lake at his family's Fourth of July weekend party in their summer place in the fictional town of Happy Days, North Carolina. Rushing him to a local hospital, he is in such bad condition that his mother, Claire, insists that he be airlifted to one in Nashville, Tennessee.   There, they diagnose Nate with meningitis and the family is told his condition is likely terminal. His brain is swelling, causing him to have constant seizures. His big sister Katy sternly tells him he does not have permission to die.   Four years later, still living in Nashville, Nate has survived but is quadripalegic. He falls into a deep depression and tries to commit suicide. Claire contacts Cebus, an organization that trains animals to be service animals. They give Nate a capuchin named Gigi as an emotional support animal. She was rescued from a California petting zoo.   At the Gibsons' Gigi quickly accepts her new living space, but takes longer to come out and interact physically with Nate. Katy comes home from college and disapproves. The family dog Banjo gets loose, chasing Gigi and leaving the house a complete mess.  Nate overhears Claire and his dad Dan argue over him and Gigi, so he says they might as well return her. To the surprise of Nate's caretakers, Gigi starts to help Nate with his rehabilitation exercises, giving him a pick-me-up.   As Gigi starts to accompany Nate on excursions into town, a local animal rights activists takes video footage of Gigi and Nate together at a local grocery store. Then he meets Lori again, the young woman he'd met the day he'd contracted meningitus. She invites them both to a college drinking party, and as he has a large Instagram following, video taken there becomes public.  The animal rights group Americans For Animal Protection (AFAP) hold a protest outside the Gibsons' home, threatening to fight to make it illegal for capuchins to become service animals. They are granted a hearing to propose the ban. Despite Nate speaking up for the primates, the ruling goes in favor of AFAP 2–1, forcing him to give up Gigi.   As Nate's mother throws out Gigi's cage, his grandmother finds an article about North Carolina allowing capuchins as service animals. So, the family opts to move back there. A year later, during a Fourth of July barbecue at their new home, Nate reveals that he got a full-ride acceptance to a college that will allow him to use Gigi as his service animal.