In 1962 Detroit, Michigan, young car salesman Curtis Taylor Jr. meets a Black girl group known as "The Dreamettes", consisting of lead singer Effie White and backup singers Deena Jones and Lorrell Robinson, at an R&B amateur talent show at the Detroit Theatre. Presenting himself as their new manager, he recruits them as backup singers for Chitlin' Circuit R&B star Jimmy "Thunder" Early.  Curtis soon starts his own record label, Rainbow Records, out of his Detroit car dealership, appointing Effie's brother C.C. head songwriter. When their first single "Cadillac Car" fails after white pop group "Dave and the Sweethearts" releases a cover version, Curtis, C.C., and their producer Wayne turn to payola to make "Jimmy Early & The Dreamettes" mainstream pop stars. Offstage, Effie falls in love with Curtis while the married Jimmy does likewise with Lorrell.  Jimmy's manager, Marty Madison, grows weary of Curtis' plans to make his client more pop-friendly and walks out. When Jimmy bombs in front of an all-white Miami Beach supper club audience, Curtis sends him out on the road alone, keeping The Dreamettes behind to headline in his place. He appoints the slimmer, more conventionally attractive Deena as the new lead singer, renaming them "The Dreams". He feels Effie's plus size figure and distinctive, soulful voice will not attract white audiences as Deena's voice, although more basic and generic, is more marketable.  Aided by new songs and a new image, Curtis and C.C. transform The Dreams into a top-selling mainstream pop group. By 1965, however, Effie begins acting out, particularly when Curtis' affections also turn towards Deena. He eventually drops Effie, hiring his secretary Michelle Morris to replace her beginning with their 1966 New Year's Eve debut in Las Vegas as "Deena Jones & the Dreams." Though Effie defiantly and desperately appeals to Curtis, he, C.C., and The Dreams abandon her, forging ahead to stardom. Effie learns she is pregnant with Curtis's child, but says nothing.  By 1973, Effie has become an impoverished welfare mother living in Detroit with her daughter Magic. To restart her music career, she hires Marty as her manager and begins performing at a local club. Meanwhile, Deena Jones & the Dreams have become superstars and Rainbow Records has moved to Los Angeles and become the biggest pop label in the country. Curtis marries Deena and pitches a film about Cleopatra to star her. However, Deena clandestinely hopes the film will never come to be, pursuing other acting gigs.  The following year, Jimmy has descended into drug addiction due to Curtis' focus on Deena, along with the rejection of the charity single he recorded. During a televised special of Rainbow's tenth anniversary, Jimmy strays off from his soulful act to do an impromptu rap. This is a hit with the audience until Jimmy goes too far and drops his pants. Curtis promptly drops him from the label and Lorrell ends their affair. Sometime later, C.C., who feels Curtis is undermining his songs' artistic merit by making them into disco music, quits the label. Jimmy dies from a heroin overdose, devastating Lorell, who is not allowed at his funeral.  Disillusioned by Jimmy's death and Curtis' cold reaction to the news, C.C. leaves Los Angeles and reconciles with Effie in Detroit. He writes and produces a comeback single for her, "One Night Only". Just as it's gaining local radio play, Curtis uses payola to force radio stations to play The Dreams' disco cover of the song. The plan falls apart, however, as Deena, increasingly angry over how Curtis controls her career, discovers his schemes and contacts Effie, who arrives in Los Angeles with C.C., Marty, and a lawyer.  Deena and Effie reconcile, with Effie telling her that Curtis is Magic's father. Curtis begrudgingly agrees to nationally distribute Effie's record to avoid being reported to the FBI. Inspired by Effie's victory and realizing Curtis' true character, Deena leaves him, vowing to start over like Effie did.  In 1975, The Dreams give a farewell performance at the Detroit Theater, inviting Effie for the final song. Towards the end, Curtis notices Magic in the front row, realizing she is his daughter.