Mira Ray and her boyfriend John are very much in love, and often communicate via flirtatious messages. Directly after they have a loving interaction in a café, he goes outside and is promptly hit by a car before Mira's eyes.   Two years later, Mira is living outside of the city with her parents and her sister Suzy regularly calls, trying to convince her to move back in with her. She is ultimately successful, and greets Mira with open arms.  Rob Burns is miserable, recovering from being dumped a week before his wedding. He unhappily follows his ex Elizabath on social media. Called in to work, Rob is assigned to write a piece on Céline Dion and warned if he again doesn't write about her with heart he might be out of a job.  Given a new corporate phone, Rob chats with his workmates Lisa and Billy, who encourage him to date again. However he's become cynical about love. Simultaneously, Mira opens a box given to her by John's parents, containing clothes and the engagement ring he hadn't the chance to give her. A children's book author and illustrator, Mira is threatened by her publisher to either produce another upbeat book soon or be at blame for an intern's dismissal and be forced to return her last advance.   Rob begins to receive private, lovesick messages from a mystery woman on the new work mobile. Discovering the person has a blind date via a dating app, he goes to the bar to connect a face to the number. Believing he's spotted her, Rob is disappointed to see her leave with her date. Unbeknownst to him, Mira shortly throws the guy out of the cab for being too sexually aggressive.  Going to the interview with Céline, she detects Rob's cynicism toward love. She asks him probing questions until he opens up. Rob is encouraged to follow his heart by Céline, then runs out of time to conduct the interview, but she encourages him to try again once he's worked through his issues.   Deciphering a text, Rob deduces the texter will be going to a specific opera at The Met, so decides to stay for all performances until he finds her. He finally finds her and introduces himself, both discovering her name is Mira Ray and exchanging personal mobile numbers. Meeting for cheeseburgers another day, they continually find ways they are compatible, and are up all night talking. The next night they make dinner together at her place, Mira falls asleep and Rob takes to the sofa. She freaks out when she finds him and Suzy getting on very well.  Rob finds Céline rehearsing, and she notes he's transformed. Mira contacts him again, they play basketball and then spend the night together at his place. In the morning, upon discovering her texts to John on his computer screen, she feels betrayed and tells him to never contact her again.   In lieu of writing the profile on Céline, Rob instead writes how she and her music inspired him to pursue love, which he found with Mira. He swears that she has transformed him and begs she give him a second chance, proposing they meet where he first began to hear the music again. Rob's boss publicly chews him out for going against his assignment, but quietly praises him, promising him a podcast.  Rob eventually finds Mira somewhere between the Met and Central Park. Once he agrees to several promises, they seal the deal with a kiss.