In the 1980s, a girl named Luli McMullen lives with her neglectful mother and alcoholic father in a small Nebraska town. On her 13th birthday, she receives a revolver as a gift. Shortly thereafter, Luli sees a commercial for Las Vegas and decides to run away there. She hitches a ride from Eddie, an erratic drifter with a limp. They argue and she leaves the car. She eventually convinces another passerby, Glenda, to give her a ride. When Glenda asks Luli her name, Glenda makes fun of it and tells her how much of a “hick” name it is. Moments later, Glenda gives Luli a bump of cocaine and Luli begins to experience minor visual hallucinations as they drive down the backroads. They bond after Luli helps Glenda rob a convenience store and spend the night in a trailer behind a bowling alley, where a little boy named Angel lives whom Glenda seems to take care of. Luli encounters Eddie again that night in the parking lot of the bowling alley.  The next day, Glenda takes Luli to the house she shares with her husband, Lloyd. Luli discovers that Eddie works for Lloyd as a bartender, and also that Glenda knows Eddie and is quite upset to see him. While Lloyd initially appears friendly, his true nature shows through when he viciously berates Eddie for a small mistake. Eddie retaliates by urinating in Lloyd's drink, which goes undetected by Lloyd. Eddie tells Luli that Lloyd and Glenda want to be alone, so he takes her to a bar. Eddie is interrupted while hustling pool by Luli, and when his hustle fails, the man that he was hustling makes a deal with Eddie on terms uncertain to the audience. The man then follows Luli into the bathroom and tries to rape her. She fights him before Eddie comes in and savagely beats the man to death.  As they leave the bar, Eddie says that Glenda has asked him to take Luli to a motel to meet Glenda because she got in a fight with Lloyd, but not before Luli walks in on Eddie doing drugs with two junkies. At the motel, Eddie tells Luli that Glenda actually gave him a thousand dollars to take her off Glenda's hands. Heartbroken by this news and unnerved by Eddie's strange behavior, Luli goes outside, where she meets a boy named Clement and has a nice time playing a drinking game with him. Eddie interrupts them in a drunken outburst, and the two leave the motel. When Eddie insinuates he's fallen in love with Luli, she tells him she will never love him back and asks him to pull over, leaving the car despite Eddie begging her to stay. While she's walking away, Eddie suddenly gets out of the car and chases Luli into a cornfield, where he rapes her off-screen.  The next day, Luli wakes up to find herself tied to a bed in a rented cabin at a resort and dressed differently, with shorter hair that's been dyed black. Luli shouts for help to no avail. Eddie arrives with flowers, unties her, and professes his love for her, promising to never rape her again. They are interrupted by the proprietor, Beau, who briefly talks with both of them and leaves. The next day, Luli, tied up again, wakes up to find Glenda in the room. Glenda confesses that Eddie used to be her lover and Angel is their son together. She then states that she has spent years running from him. Luli also finds out that Eddie lied about Glenda giving him money and that he essentially kidnapped her from Lloyd's house. Glenda has been looking for her ever since. They are soon caught by Eddie, who accidentally shoots and kills Glenda with Luli's revolver. Luli picks up the gun and kills Eddie before falling to the ground. Later, Beau happens upon the scene. He then cooks for Luli and talks about his sister who lives in Los Angeles and how she always wanted a daughter, insisting that Luli "look her up" but Luli turns down the offer, stating that she's not a charity case.  Beau then drives Luli to the bus station, her plan being to reunite with her own family. After she calls home, she learns her mother was barely concerned with her being missing, that she sold their land to Lux the investment developer, and her father has disappeared altogether, a fact also met with relative indifference by her mother. An upset and heartbroken Luli hangs up the phone crying as she realizes that she will be no better off if she goes back. While on the bus, she looks through her sketchbook of drawings and finds a note from Beau reading "Dear Luli, just in case you change your mind" on a picture she drew of his sister's home in Los Angeles with her address and zip code written on the picture. Rejecting the offer at first, Luli has a brief train of thought and then realizes and comes to terms that she would be better off without her neglectful family completely. Seizing the opportunity, she manages to get off the bus by telling the bus driver that she needs to go back for her medicine and simulates an epileptic seizure. Once off the bus, Luli runs all the way back to the station and buys a bus ticket to Los Angeles, deciding to go live with Beau's sister for a fresh start as a teenage girl. The film ends with Luli on the bus to Los Angeles, looking at her sketchbook with the note inside before she looks up with a smile on her face.