In 1958, a twelve-year-old Kermit the Frog lives in the swamps of the Deep South with his cool and smooth-talking best friend, Croaker the Frog, who is the best hopper in the swamp, Goggles the Toad, a shy and awkward friend of his, Blotch the Bullfrog, who bullies the trio, and Arnie the Alligator, who protects Kermit and his friends from the dangers lurking outside the swamp, especially regarding humans. Kermit wonders what lies beyond the swamp, but Goggles and Croaker do not think the same.  One day, the three friends run into an evil biology teacher named Dr. Hugo Krassman (John Hostetter) and his assistant Mary (Kelly Collins Lintz), intent on capturing frogs. Arnie saves them and warns them about the two humans. The next day, they run into Blotch, who attacks them. The fight spills onto a road, where the pair are taken by a pet store owner named Wilson (William Bookston), prompting Kermit and Croaker to venture forth on a quest to save their friends. When Goggles and Blotch are taken into a pet store, Blotch's bullying causes the pair to be put in a cage with Vicki the Snake, who intends to eat Blotch. Goggles saves him by goading Vicki to kill him and then using his poison gland, which makes Blotch forget about bullying other frogs. The other animals at the store manage to convince Goggles and Blotch in a lively musical number that being sold to someone as a pet leads to a safe and luxurious lifestyle.  After getting run over by Wilson's truck and having tire tracks on his chest, Croaker is no longer able to hop and starts to lose his confidence. Kermit and Croaker meet a stray dog named Pilgrim (voiced by Cree Summer), who saves them from Krassman and Mary, then decides to help them find their friends. Kermit is able to find Wilson's truck by using helium balloons, but discovers they are no longer in the vehicle. Kermit regroups with Pilgrim and Croaker again, and together they find Wilson's Pet Store. Croaker, filled with motivation, finally manages to hop again by hopping through the window and helps Kermit up the window, but they find out from Vicki that their friends have gone to Krassman's school George Washington High School, where animals never come back from, by Wilson, who is working for Krassman all along to capture the frogs. Kermit speaks to a star he often looked up at in the swamp, who gives him advice that he shouldn't give up hope, which reaffirms Kermit's determination to find Goggles and Blotch and he comes up with a clever plan for him and Croaker to break into George Washington High School, save Goggles and Blotch, and defeat Krassman for good.  The next day, Kermit and Croaker deliberately get caught by Wilson to get taken to the high school and escape upon arrival as the first step of Kermit's plan. They meet Pilgrim again, who followed them in order to save Goggles and Blotch as well. Pilgrim and Croaker, under Kermit's instructions, distract Wilson by asking them to capture them while Kermit to go to biology class and rescue Goggles, which is part of Kermit's plan. Kermit hitches a ride on a student's backpack. Krassman intends to dissect Goggles, but Blotch returns the favor for rescuing him from Vicki. Krassman decides to dissect Croaker instead, when Wilson brings him into the class. Mary refuses to show the class how the dissection is done and leaves the classroom. Kermit manages to free Croaker from the dissection table and fight with Dr. Krassman using some swashbuckling techniques he picked up earlier at a movie theater, but Krassman is able to overpower Kermit, Croaker, and Blotch. Goggles finds the knife that Kermit dropped, but after he picks it up, Krassman sees him.  Despite the warnings that Kermit should never talk to humans, Kermit stops Krassman from attacking Goggles by talking and asks him to please release the frogs as the final phase of his plan. This action leads Krassman to reveal that as a child, he was about to dissect his first frog when the frog begged him to stop, but the frog refused to say anything to everyone else in Krassman's classroom, which caused him to be humiliated. Krassman, having been exposed by Kermit via his speech, frees all the frogs, enables Kermit and his friends to return home, dismisses the class, gets fired by the School district, and he and Mary are sent to prison for their crimes.  With the truth revealed that frogs can talk and Kermit's rescue plan as a success, Kermit, Crocker, Goggles, and Blotch head back home after a ride back to the swamp's border in Wilson's truck and a redeemed Wilson adopts Pilgrim. Back at the swamp, Kermit is hailed a hero for saving Goggles and Blotch, confessing the truth about humans, and defeating Krassman.