A reckless, on-the-lam punk rock singer named Simon goes home with Beth, a girl he met while volunteering at a clinical trial. He and Beth's mother begin to flirt, and after getting caught, Simon lights the family's front yard on fire. Meanwhile, track athletes Derrick and Brandon bully the young and awkward Patty, who goes to work at a pet store before returning home. She eats dinner with her parents, Norman and Connie, and brother Kevin, and is unsuccessful in asking for permission to go to a rock show with her friends, Sissy and Karen. For the past two years, Patty has been sending postcards containing nude photos and lyrics to her original music to John Q, the lead singer of her favorite band PSYOPS, who will be playing next week with the Alliance. She is unaware that John Q is Simon, who performs wearing a ski mask.  The following morning, Simon begins to sell drugs around town. A police officer spots him and gives chase but fails to find him. Simon crosses paths with Patty, who recognizes him from a college course on music appreciation. She tells him that she was just fired from the pet store by the owner, Mr. Hanley. She takes him back to her place, where they flirt. Simon and Patty later eat dinner with the rest of her family. Simon convinces Norman and Connie into giving him a place to stay for the week and tells Kevin he is adopted. Patty tells Simon about her fascination for John Q. Simon runs away and confronts his band members for setting up the rock show without his knowledge. He returns to Patty's house and smokes weed with Kevin.  The next day, Simon and Patty make plans to demand an overdue paycheck from Mr. Hanley. Derrick and Brandon come across them and beat up Simon. In a rage, Simon convinces a friend to lend him his truck. He goes home to retrieve a dead cat from Patty's front yard before tracking Derrick and Brandon down. Patty acts provocatively to throw them off as Simon knocks them unconscious, strips them, burns their tracksuits, and places the dead cat on their bodies. The smoke alerts the other track athletes, who find them as Simon and Patty make their escape and drive away. They get the check from Mr. Hanley and eat lunch at a fast food restaurant. There, they kiss passionately. Simon and Patty spend the rest of the day on a date at an arcade. Simon breaks into a ticket machine to win Patty a desired stuffed teddy bear. They return home and find the rest of Patty's family completely stoned.  The following day, Simon prevents Patty from going to a job interview to be a dish cleaner and instead takes her to the basement of his mother's house. He tells her that he is John Q and proves it by giving her back her postcards. He praises her songwriting abilities. They have sex and later perform one of her songs. Her singing brings him to tears. Simon's family arrives home and invites the pair to dinner. When the family starts to criticize Simon and accuse him of being a drug addict, Patty confronts them, but they mistake her awkwardness for drug use. The family kicks them both out. When Patty asks Simon if he thinks she is retarded, he tells her to stop undervaluing herself because she is a "total punk rocker." When Simon tells his music manager that he refuses to play with the Alliance, his band members decide to call the police and turn him in for a reward. Simon takes Patty on another date to a "secret" rock show. He sings one of her favorite songs, "Dinner in America," and dedicates the performance to her, cementing their relationship. The police arrest Simon as Sissy and Karen notice Patty kissing him before he goes. The trio decides to start a riot girl band. Sometime later, Patty reads a letter from Simon that includes a nude photo of his. She punches a bully that calls her a retard, walks away, puts on a ski mask, and listens to the song she recorded with Simon.