Sean lives in a caravan in a forest, accompanied only by his cat, Kaspar. Sean’s simple lifestyle is centered on experimenting with various chemicals and substances according to an old alchemy book, with seemingly no success, though there are mysterious sounds from the forest. Sean runs out of the pills he regularly takes. He becomes increasingly nervous about being watched and locks himself in the caravan with an axe. He receives a visitor, but it is only his friend Cortez, who has come to deliver supplies. The resupply of Sean’s pills cannot be found; Cortez refuses to make another three hour round trip to retrieve them from his home.  Without his pills Sean’s mental stability deteriorates and he grows increasingly paranoid and frightened of his surroundings. After unsuccessful experiments with a dead mouse, he sets animal traps in the forest. He goes out onto the lake on his rowboat, where he proclaims that he intends to summon a demon that night, which he will give whatever it wants, including his body and teeth. Sean’s trap catches a possum, which he takes home and feeds. That night, he makes a fire and calls out to "Belial", saying he repents his human form, and reads Latin from his book of alchemy. Upon hearing loud bellowing sounds from the forest, he rushes back inside. He lights dozens of candles and continues reading from his book. The possum makes strange sounds before Sean kills it with a knife.  Cortez arrives and is shocked at the dead possum and the state of the cabin. However, he is on the run and intends to stay with Sean for a time. Sean is agitated by this and tells him to leave, threatening Cortez with his knife. Cortez leaves, feeling betrayed. Later Sean finds Cortez’s car in the forest, destroyed, Cortez's cross necklace, and a tooth embedded in a tree carved with the words "PAY UP." That night, Sean is burning his papers on alchemy when Cortez stumbles over, covered in blood and eyes glowing. Switching between awareness and fear of his situation to speaking in a deep, warped voice, he tells Sean of the devil in the forest which feels owed all that Sean owns.  The next day Sean finds Cortez’s dead body and buries him. Later, in his cabin, Sean extracts his own teeth with pliers. That night he calls out to the demon, telling it he has his tooth. A loud bellowing answers; later, Sean sits in his cabin covered in blood. Crying, shaking, and seemingly insane, he smashes his head into a mirror until it shatters, drinks chemicals from test tubes, and eats the raw organs of the dead possum. He realizes that his cat is missing and goes out to search for it. Calling for Kaspar, his voice begins to sound like the howls of the demon.  Sean takes his bag and a large rock and submerges himself in the lake. A little later he emerges from the water and, initially ecstatic, exclaims that he has defeated the demon. His triumph is short lived, as he hears the whimper of his cat and the howl of the demon in the forest.