In a hospital, while other parents adore their newborn children, Mrs Wormwood is distraught to learn she is pregnant and in labour. To her husband Mr Wormwood's confusion, she gives birth to a girl, Matilda. Despite her parents' constant disdain, Matilda becomes a sweet child who loves reading and visits the mobile librarian Mrs Phelps daily. Upon discovering that Matilda has not been properly schooled, teacher Miss Jennifer Honey and an inspector visit the house to suggest Matilda be sent to Crunchem Hall. Angry about being fined for not sending his daughter to school, Mr Wormwood warns the severe headmistress, Miss Agatha Trunchbull, about Matilda. In retaliation, Matilda mixes green hair dye into his hair tonic.  Before school, Matilda tells Mrs Phelps a story about an escapologist who falls in love with and marries an acrobat. Arriving at school, Matilda and her fellow new student Lavender are warned about the terrible way the students are treated there. In Honey's classroom, Matilda solves a complex mathematical equation on the board and confesses that she loves reading most. An impressed Honey asks Trunchbull to move Matilda to a more advanced class, but Trunchbull refuses to let Matilda be an exception to the rules. At home, when Matilda criticizes her father, he rips her book apart and wrongly sends her to bed; the next day, she retaliates by gluing his hat to his head.   During the students' lunch, Trunchbull falsely accuses Matilda of stealing a slice of her private chocolate cake, but Bruce Bogtrotter accidentally reveals he is the culprit by belching. Trunchbull forces him to eat the entire cake, saying he will be forgiven if he eats every last crumb. Bruce's success thrills Matilda, Honey, and the students, but Trunchbull still punishes him by taking him out to the Chokey. After school, Matilda returns to Mrs Phelps and continues her story: the now-pregnant acrobat is forced to perform a dangerous stunt by her stepsister; she is horribly injured and dies after giving birth to a daughter. The escapologist forgives the stepsister and asks her to help him raise his daughter. The stepsister blames the daughter for her stepsister's death and secretly abuses her. When the escapologist discovers his daughter is mistreated, he never returns from confronting the stepsister.  The next day, Trunchbull forces the children through challenging exercises to crush their rebelliousness. Lavender slips her pet newt into her drinking water, and after Matilda stands up to Trunchbull, she uses her newly discovered telekinesis to embarrass Trunchbull. Honey invites Matilda to her cottage, where Matilda learns that the escapologist and the acrobat were Miss Honey's parents and the evil stepsister is Trunchbull. Honey tries to warn Matilda about Trunchbull's dangerousness, but she doesn't care. She then goes to the Chokey and uses her telekinesis to destroy it. Returning home, Matilda learns that her father has cheated the mafia and the family will be fleeing to Spain, distressing Matilda about never seeing her friends again.  When the children return to school, Trunchbull forces Honey's class to spell words correctly or be locked in a new Chokey. She has Lavender spell a made-up word, tricking the other children into purposely spelling words incorrectly in rebellion. Trunchbull then reveals that she made a multitude of new Chokeys for every single child to be put in. Matilda uses her telekinesis to pretend to be the vengeful ghost of Honey's father, then destroys all the Chokeys and throws Trunchbull out of the school. Honey tells Trunchbull never to return and takes back the keys to her father's house. After Trunchbull runs away, the students openly revolt and destroy Trunchbull's statue. Mr and Mrs Wormwood come to take Matilda to Spain with them, but before they can leave, Honey pleads with them to let Matilda stay with her. They reluctantly agree to let Matilda stay, who uses her powers to unglue her father's hat.  With Miss Honey as the new headmistress, the students rename Crunchem Hall "The Big Friendly School" and renovate the school with a new playground and a giraffe. When Matilda finishes her story for Mrs Phelps, she is overjoyed that Matilda's true story has a happy ending, in which Matilda and Miss Honey live happily together.