Martin, who had settled down with the woman he met at the climax of the first film, attempts to track down Mister after his wife and daughter are killed in an attack led by a scarred sentient female vampire. Martin eventually finds him after being forced by cannibals into fighting him. Mister recognizes Martin and together they escape from the cannibals while rescuing a feral girl. Mister, Martin and the feral girl find an abandoned house to stay the night but are later attacked by the cult from the first film. It is later revealed that they serve the scarred vampire and that they have been looking for Mister. The scarred vampire had killed Martin's family with the intent of using a vengeful Martin to find Mister. Martin, Mister, and the feral girl manage to escape and capture one of the younger cultists who tells them that he was forced into going along with the cult.   Mister's group bumps into another group, one of whom Mister recognizes as an old friend, they are then taken to their base where another of Mister's old friends helps him heal and recuperate. The cultist is locked in a small room, but later escapes after tricking a woman into thinking he had hanged himself and murders her. The cultist then alerts the rest of the cult and the vampires of the base's whereabouts. The base is attacked and Mister instantly recognizes the scarred vampire as a vampire he had attempted to kill in the past, only succeeding in scarring her. A flashback shows that the scarred vampire had given birth to a child who Mister killed. The base's defense holds, thanks in part to some flood lights powered by a generator, and the scarred vampire signals for her troops to retreat.  Knowing the scarred vampire and her troops will return, Mister and Martin, along with Mister's old friends try and buy time by combating the threat while the civilians evacuate. The feral girl is forced to go with the civilians but later escapes and tries to come back to Mister. The cult and vampires attack that night, this time using a suicide bomber to destroy the generator. Martin and Mister manage to kill the scarred vampire but Mister is wounded. Meanwhile, Mister's old friends get trapped in the kitchen but two of them sacrifice themselves by blowing themselves as well as several attackers up. Later while trying to escape and follow the civilians, a vampire approaches Martin and Mister. The feral girl comes to their aid, having grown attached to Mister. She was bitten by a vampire earlier after leaving the civilians and Mister kills her out of mercy. Saddened and disillusioned, Mister tells Martin he can't do it anymore and makes Martin leave while he stays behind to fight the remaining vampires who had followed them from the base.