A group of independent filmmakers — producer and actor Derek, editor Mark, lead actress Amy, sound technician Carl, director Andrew and production assistant Lily — travel to a cabin in a remote part of Central Texas to film the first ever 3D found footage movie, Spectre Of Death. Mark — Derek’s brother — is hired to film footage for a behind-the-scenes feature. Derek and Amy’s turbulent marriage is breaking up, with Derek privately revealing to Mark that Amy’s contract to star in the film was signed before they separated.  The group travels to Gonzales, Texas, with a script based on a warring couple who experience supernatural occurrences in a rural cabin. En route, the group debate the merits and conventions of the found footage genre. Derek reveals that the cabin they are staying in is reputed to be haunted in real life after its previous owner murdered his wife and dumped her body nearby; the revelation upsets Carl.  The shoot is fraught with difficulties. Derek’s authoritarian nature causes tension as he undermines Amy and Andrew’s contributions. Mark thinks he sees an apparition in the background of a shot while reviewing the day’s filming. Lily is injured by a shovel after an argument with Amy. That night, Amy finds Mark’s footage of Derek badmouthing her. When a scripted argument between Derek and Amy erupts into a real confrontation, Amy’s scream destroys the contents of the kitchen; Carl attributes the phenomenon to a real ghost. That night, Derek and Amy have rough sex. The following morning she has a bruise on her left eye.  Pleased with their progress, Derek takes the crew to a bar and reveals he has invited influential horror critic Scott Weinberg to document proceedings. Amy is angered by Derek’s flirting with Lily. They return to the cabin to find all but Derek’s belongings wrecked, with Carl’s covered in slime; Carl storms off into the woods after an argument with Derek. Amy wakes to find her arm bleeding from being mauled. While reviewing footage with Mark, they find that an unknown party filmed the group as they slept and an invisible force wounded Amy. A black shape then attacks the two but only Amy, who is filming events, sees it.  Mark tells Derek he is leaving with Amy and the two come to blows. Derek relents and says he will not stand in Amy's way if she wants to leave. Amy decides to stay and Mark promises not to go without her. As they embrace, her eyes glow red. Scott arrives the next day and is unimpressed with the unprofessional shoot. Derek rewrites the climax so his character survives, infuriating Andrew. While filming a scene between them, Amy attacks Derek with a hammer. An invisible force locks the door, preventing his rescue before tremors shake the cabin. The door flies off its hinges, killing Scott, and the black shape explodes through Andrew’s chest, killing him. Mark and Lily flee into the woods.  Mark reasons that the entity is visible only via camera lens so he continues filming. They discover Carl’s bloodied corpse before Lily is killed by the entity. Mark runs back to the cabin and is about to leave in their van before hearing Amy’s voice over the mic, pleading for help. He braves the cabin — covered with Derek’s remains — to find a portable mic to locate Amy.  Mark finds her in the woods just as she is mauled again by the entity. They drive off but crash into a log blocking the road. A tearful Amy tells Mark she wishes he hadn’t returned for her, hoping he had remembered the cardinal rule of found footage — no characters survive — before her eyes glow red and she lunges at him.