Porn of the Dead has no overarching plot or storyline; instead it consists of five unconnected sequences which depict people having sex with the undead in a world which appears to be experiencing the onset of a zombie plague.  The film begins with a man finding a dazed, emaciated, and filth-encrusted woman in a waitress's uniform stumbling down a road. The man forces the woman into his car, and takes her to a house, where he strangles her in a pit full of plastic, newspapers, and body parts. The killer leaves to get a protective suit and an axe, and when he returns he finds nothing but the woman's discarded clothing in the hole. As the man scours pit in confusion, the now undead woman reappears, and attacks him, ripping off his gear, and performing fellatio on him. The man and the zombie have rough sex, which ends when the zombie bites the man's penis off, resulting in her being "facialized" by blood.  A girl is then shown in her bedroom, masturbating with a toy while fantasizing about being intimate with a male zombie. The girl and the zombie have sex, and the daydream concludes when the girl has an orgasm in real life. Out in the woods, a group of people are in the middle of filming a porno, when three naked male zombies crash the set. The cast and crew members are either killed (one has his heart ripped out and eaten in front of him) or scared off, leaving the female star of the film to be gangbanged by the ghouls. In a morgue, an employee places a female body on a table, and begins molesting it. The corpse eventually reanimates as a zombie, which the attendant has sex with.  At a psychiatric hospital, an orderly enters a room covered in drawings of inverted crosses, and discovers the female resident lying on the floor, having seemingly killed herself via self-induced head trauma. The orderly removes the patient's straitjacket, and decides to have sex with the body before alerting anyone about the suicide. The girl returns to life as a zombie mid-coitus, and bites one of the orderly's fingertips off, angering him, and prompting him to get rough. After the orderly ejaculates, the zombie rips his innards out with her teeth, and gnaws on them as the man expires.