In 1304, outside the besieged Stirling Castle, John Comyn, Robert Bruce, and other Scottish nobility surrender to Edward I of England. He demands their homage to get their land back.  Afterwards, Bruce spars with Edward's heir, Edward, Prince of Wales, and is wed to his goddaughter, Elizabeth de Burgh. Lord James Douglas arrives, asking for the restoration of his ancestral lands but is denied, due to the previous Lord Douglas' so-called treason. The King and Prince depart Scotland, leaving Comyn and Bruce in charge, under watch of the Earl of Pembroke Aymer de Valence.  Elizabeth marries Bruce, but he respectfully delays the consummation. Not long after, his father, the Lord of Annandale, dies, fearing his friendship with the King of England may have been an error.  Soon after, while delivering taxes to the English, Bruce notes their unpopularity. Rioting ensues when rebel William Wallace is quartered. He plans another revolt and his family agrees, including Elizabeth. Trying to persuade John Comyn to join them, he threatens to inform Edward. Panicked, Bruce kills him within a church. The Scottish clergy offers him a pardon if he supports the Catholic Church in Scotland and he accepts the Crown of Scotland deal. King Edward hears of it, declaring Bruce an outlaw. The Prince of Wales is sent to crush the uprising, with the king's order that no quarter to be shown to any Bruce supporter.  Calling a council of nobles, most refuse to break their oaths to Edward. Despite the lack of support, Bruce heads to Scone to be crowned king of Scots. On the way, Douglas pledges his allegiance. The ambitious de Valence, brother-in-law to Comyn, tries to move against Bruce before the Prince arrives. To avoid bloodshed he challenges de Valence to single combat, who accepts but delays the duel a day, as it is Sunday. That night, Bruce and Elizabeth finally consummate their marriage, but the English launch a surprise attack. Elizabeth and Marjorie Bruce are sent to safety with his brother Nigel, and he fights a losing battle, during which most of the Scottish army is killed. Escaping with fifty men, they flee to Islay. On the way, John MacDougall parleys with them, bitter about the murder of his cousin Comyn but allows them to pass. Later, however, he attacks Bruce's entourage as they attempt to cross Loch Ryan. Some get away in boats, but Bruce's brother Alexander dies.  Prince Edward arrives in Scotland, searching for Bruce at Kildrummy Castle, only to find Bruce's wife, daughter, and brother. The prince has Nigel hanged, drawn, and quartered, and sends Marjorie and Elizabeth to England. Bruce's band presses on to Islay anyway; there, they learn of the fall of Kildrummy Castle. Bruce decides to take back the castle through stealth. The successful operation inspires him to begin guerilla warfare. Shortly thereafter, Bruce is reunited with his other brother, Edward. In England, Marjorie is separated from Elizabeth, who is to go to a nunnery. After Edward hears Douglas Castle has been re-taken, he goes after Bruce himself. Edward offers Elizabeth a pardon if she annuls her marriage to Robert, but she refuses and is placed in a hanging cage.  King Edward dies shortly after arriving in Scotland, and the Prince takes over his forces. Bruce fights the new king in a pitched battle at Loudoun Hill, despite being outnumbered six to one. As Edward's army is composed almost entirely of cavalry, Robert overcomes his army's size disadvantage in the battle with a spear wall hidden by a ditch. Attempting to attack the flanks, horsemen become bogged down in the mud, as anticipated. The English knights fall from their horses, many are slain, and the battle becomes an open brawl, where the Scots prevail over the disoriented English soldiers, with James killing the noble whom King Edward had granted his family's lands to. Realising the battle is hopeless, de Valence orders a retreat. However, determined to kill his nemesis, Edward does not join them. Instead, he duels Bruce as the Scots look on. Edward is outmatched, and realising he is about to be slain, he vomits in fear and cries for help. Bruce prevails, allowing Edward to leave unharmed.  In the epilogue: Elizabeth was released, the Prince of Wales was crowned King Edward II, then killed by his own lords in a rebellion some years later. Three hundred years later, Robert's descendant through his daughter unified the crowns of England and Scotland, and Sir James Douglas' descendant, Marion Hamilton, married Kentigern Hunter, who died at the battle of Pinkie Cleugh, the last battle between England and Scotland before the union of the crowns, in 1547.