On a remote mountaintop, the Monos, a group of teenage commandos identified only by their noms de guerre, perform military training exercises while watching over a prisoner of war referred to only as "Doctora". They are visited by the Messenger, a superior in the unnamed Organization they serve, who oversees their drills and instructs them to push themselves harder. Two of the Monos, Lady and Wolf, request permission to enter a romantic relationship, which the Messenger grants. Before departing, he leaves the Monos in charge of a milk cow named Shakira.  Lady and Wolf consummate their relationship, an event the other commandos honor with celebratory gunfire, during which Shakira is inadvertently shot and killed by Dog. The Monos punish Dog by putting him in solitary confinement in a pit and then drag Shakira's body to their camp to strip it for meat. Troop leader Wolf commits suicide. The Monos argue over how to report this to the Messenger via radio; they eventually lie to protect Dog, saying that Wolf killed Shakira and killed himself out of shame. Lady and Rambo have a sexual encounter that night by the fire. With Wolf dead, the Messenger appoints Bigfoot as head of the squad. Over the radio, the Organization's commander asks Doctora questions from her family to confirm that she is alive.  The Monos' base is attacked and Doctora is put under the watch of Swede, who informs her that she will be killed if the opposing forces try to rescue her. While they are alone together, Doctora appeals to Swede's emotions to help her escape and the two embrace when the bunker in which they are hiding is shelled. Swede begins kissing Doctora, who throws her off; Swede then returns to holding her at gunpoint, laughing while crying.  The following day, Bigfoot announces that the Monos were triumphant in the fight and will be relocating to the jungle. Soon after their arrival, Doctora makes an attempt to escape. Bigfoot is enraged, damaging the radio and declaring the Monos independent of the Organization. After Doctora is recaptured, Bigfoot demands that Rambo chain her to a tree. Rambo does so, but begins to cry, further angering Bigfoot.  The Messenger returns to check on the Monos and discovers that Lady and Bigfoot have begun a sexual relationship without approval. He forces the Monos to carry out strenuous exercises and confess to him about one another's misdeeds. Smurf reveals that Dog is the one who killed Shakira, and recounts what Bigfoot said about the Monos' independence. The Messenger announces that he will be taking Bigfoot to be assessed by the Organization's superiors. However, on the motorboat ride there, Bigfoot shoots the Messenger in the back and returns to the jungle camp. Smurf is tied to a tree as punishment for snitching and the Monos double down on their training, robbing several passing motorists.  Rambo tries to free Smurf in the night, but is stopped by Lady. Rambo then runs off alone and attempts to steal a boat, only to be caught by its owner, who is diving for gold in the river. He takes Rambo back to his home, where Rambo meets the man's family and is given food and a bed.  Swede takes the chained Doctora to swim, and soon joins her in the river. Doctora uses the chain to strangle Swede underwater, then breaks the chain with a rock. She returns to the base, finds Smurf tied up, and takes his boots. Smurf begs Doctora to take him with her, but she leaves him.  The Monos track Rambo down and attack the house, killing the man and his wife. As Rambo flees, a television in the background reports that Doctora has been spotted in the jungle, and it is implied she will soon be rescued by authorities. Lady finds the couple's three children hiding under a table while Bigfoot, Boom Boom, and Dog chase Rambo, who jumps into the river. Eventually, Rambo washes up on shore and is picked up by a military helicopter, whose pilots radio ahead that they have found an unidentified person. As the helicopter arrives in a nearby city, one of the soldiers contacts his commander, repeatedly requesting orders about what to do with the captive as Rambo starts to cry.