In the five years since Knocked Up, Debbie owns a boutique and Desi and Jodi work for her. Pete owns his own record label, and friends Ronnie and Cat work with him.  Pete's business is struggling financially as he promotes the reunion of Graham Parker & The Rumour. The couple also are having to deal with their daughters, 13-year-old Sadie and eight-year-old Charlotte. For Debbie's 40th birthday, the couple goes on a romantic weekend to a resort. There they get high on marijuana cookies and fantasize out loud about ways they would kill each other.  After speaking with her friends Jason and Barb, Debbie decides to improve her marriage and family through exercise and becoming more connected with her father. She tells Pete he needs to stop lending his dad Larry money because it is hurting them financially. Pete visits him, but is unsuccessful at giving him the news, and still agrees to give him more. Meanwhile, Debbie visits her gynecologist, discovering she is pregnant but decides not to tell Pete. Later, she yells at a student, Joseph, who has been taunting Sadie on Facebook – so much so that his mother, Catherine, gets into an argument with Pete.  One night between the school taunting sequences, Debbie takes Desi out dancing at a club, planning to confront her with her suspicions that she has been stealing money from the store. Debbie and Desi meet several players from the Philadelphia Flyers hockey team there. Debbie awkwardly finds out that one of the players wants to hang out with her and possibly sleep with her. Though flattered that he wants to have sex with her, she reveals that she is married, has two kids, and is pregnant. Afterward, Debbie drops Desi off at her house, finally confronting her about the missing money. Desi reveals she is able to afford nice things because she is also an escort.  Later, Debbie meets up with Jodi, who confesses she stole the money to buy Oxycontin. She fires her and leaves. Meanwhile, Pete and Debbie are having to deal with Sadie and Charlotte fighting all the time, resulting in arguments among the family. They later have to meet with the principal, but the couple denies everything Catherine accuses them of doing. The couple is delighted when she starts using the same foul language they had used previously, and the principal dismisses them.  At Pete's 40th birthday party, they argue about the money his dad wants from them. Debbie argues with her dad about not spending enough time in her life, and how he is perfect. Oliver then explains that his life is not perfect, and how he has always cared about her and loved her. Later, Pete overhears Debbie talking about her pregnancy, and rides out of the house on his bicycle in anger. Debbie and Larry go, finding he has cycled into a car door. Pete gets into an argument with the driver of the car, who then punches him in the stomach.  Debbie and Larry take Pete to the hospital, where Larry and Debbie reconcile, with Larry recognizing that she is why the family is able to stay together, as she is the fighter. Pete and Debbie talk later; he is actually thrilled about having a third baby, he doesn't feel trapped, so they reconcile.  Sometime later, Pete and Debbie are watching a small concert with Ryan Adams performing. She suggests he sign him to his label and they plan to talk to him as they finish watching the show.  After the main credits roll, there's an extended alternate take of Catherine's ad-libbing insults during the meeting with Debbie, Pete, and the school principal.