In October 1973, the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad receives intelligence implying that Egypt and Syria are preparing to commence a military campaign against Israel, which it promptly relays to the Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir. Meir is dismissive of the intelligence, noting her inability to initiate a counter-plan without the support of her defense minister, Moshe Dayan, who is equally speculative.   On 6 October, on the Jewish holy day of Yom Kippur, Meir's inner circle informs her that Egypt has amassed a large force opposite the Suez Canal, concluding that hostilities would begin by sundown. Although realizing her tardiness in preparing adequately, Meir refuses to make a pre-emptive move, instead ordering a partial mobilization to face the threat. Nevertheless, she is surprised when the attack begins early. Dayan, who is sent to inspect the Golan Heights on the Syrian border, is horrified to discover that Syria has launched a thorough attack against the ill-prepared Israeli troops. Dazed, he attempts to resign; Meir talks him out of it but loses confidence in him.  Between 7-8 October, with Egypt and Syria making gains into Israel, Israeli Defence Force chief of staff Lieutenant General David Elazar proposes to relieve Israeli fortifications in the Sinai Peninsula using the 162nd Division led by Major General Avraham Adan. Despite opposition from Mossad chief Zvi Zamir, the plan proceeds, but the Egyptians defeat the Israeli force. The next day, with the Syrian offensive having slowed, Dayan proposes an air strike on Syrian capital Damascus to put pressure on Egypt. However, with a shortage of planes, the Israeli Air Force is unable to proceed. In response, Meir asks United States Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to provide surplus jets, to which he reluctantly agrees, though he expresses that it is problematic for the United States to increase its support for Israel in light of the 1973 oil crisis.   On the fifth day, amidst increasing tensions, Major General Ariel Sharon proposes an operation to cross the Suez Canal using the 143rd Division to challenge the Egyptian Second and Third Armies. Zvi informs Meir that the Egyptian 4th and 21st Divisions would cross the canal in two days, leaving Egyptian capital Cairo undefended in the event of an attack. According to the intelligence, the Egyptians cross the canal, are met with resistance from Israeli tank forces led by Lieutenant General Haim Bar-Lev, and are defeated.  On 15 October, Sharon's forces cross the canal at an undefended point called the "Chinese Farm". They are ambushed by Egyptian units but maintain their positions. Meanwhile, Elazar prepares to barricade the Third Army by cutting off Suez from Cairo, which would accordingly force Egypt into negotiations. Concurrently, Kissinger pays a private visit to Meir and urges her to accept a ceasefire. Meir proceeds with her plan anyway, which finally forces Egypt into talks.   By the twentieth day, both sides agree to the further diplomatic talks and to exchange prisoners of war, effectively concluding the conflict. However, Zvi privately informs Meir that military intelligence chief Major General Eli Zeira had neglected to properly monitor signals intelligence from the Egyptian side, which allowed Israel to be attacked unawares. Although appalled, she chooses to bear the blame, rather than reveal the existence of the listening system. Despite the victory, the conflict's intensity inflicts an emotional toll on the aged Meir, who is stricken with cancer.   One year later, in 1974, Meir testifies before the Agranat Commission about her conduct in the war. She states off-the-record that despite her initial uncertainty, she genuinely felt war was certain. Four years later, on 8 October 1978, a bedridden Meir dies watching footage of her meeting with Egyptian president Anwar Sadat a year earlier.   The film's monologue reveals that the commission cleared Meir of any wrongdoing and that she lived to see the signing of the Camp David Accords, the first formal measures of peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors.