Edward Carnby, a paranormal investigator, has a nightmare in which he hides from alien-like creatures as a child. Carnby flies to an urban museum where his girlfriend, Aline Cedric, is an assistant curator. Carnby holds an artifact-puzzle piece of the Abkani, an extinct Native American tribe. A strange man follows Carnby and attacks him with supernatural strength, but the man dies after many escape attempts by Carnby. Simultaneously, a ship recovers a gold coffin from the ocean floor. After docking, the captain locks up the curator of the museum, Prof. Hudgens, while his crew opens the coffin. Hudgens escapes to find everyone killed by a mysterious creature and the coffin empty. Hudgens finds a secret compartment, collects an artifact from the coffin, and goes ashore.  Several people across the western US and Canada walk off into the night after hearing an ear-splitting screech, and Carnby passes out while studying his artifact. Bureau 713, where Carnby used to work, becomes aware of evidence of electromagnetic waves by a surveillance team. Carnby thinks it is related to the Abkani because everyone who disappeared was from the same location. Carnby arrives that evening at the museum with the artifact, and Cedric shows him another recently arrived Abkani artifact that she has been studying since Hudgens' absence. The mysterious creature from the ship attacks them inside the museum, killing a security guard. Carnby and Cedric hide in a storage closet until troopers from Bureau 713 arrive, and the creature retreats.  Carnby attempts to relay information to their team leader, Commander Burke, but Burke tells him to stay out of it. Carnby asks his former co-workers, including staff surgeon and pathologist Sam Fischer, about the creature.  Hudgens returns to the museum with a captured creature. Hudgens uses a syringe to draw fluid from the creature to study it as part of his research in combining the DNA of man and beast. Carnby investigates his past by visiting his former orphanage to learn more about Hudgens' research.  While patrolling the museum, several creatures attack Bureau 713 soldiers. Several soldiers and most of the creatures, who are revealed to be people who disappeared earlier, are killed. Carnby arrives, and Burke again tells him to stay away. During a scuffle, Carnby picks Burke's pocket containing his security badge.  Carnby goes to Bureau 713 and talks with Fischer in the morgue while looking at one of the corpses. Fischer shows Carnby a small, centipede-like creature in the dorsal spine of his old friend. Fischer also discovers that Carnby has one of his own in his body, but it is dead, presumably because of the electroshock Carnby had as a child. Burke and his men arrive and escort Carnby out of the building. That evening, Professor Hudgens ambushes Fischer at his home and inserts a baby creature into Fischer's mouth.  Carnby discovers that the Abkani had fought the creatures, which can be killed by light. They also disrupt electrical light, creating blackouts. The Abkani artifacts found all over the world open the gate to another dimension, where millions of creatures sleep, waiting to be freed. Hudgens further experiments, injecting himself with the blood of one of the creatures, which allows him to control the monsters. Carnby, Cedric, Burke, and Burke's military squad go to an abandoned gold mine near Carnby's orphanage, where there are strong electromagnetic disruptions. They are attacked by dozens of the creatures; only Carnby, Cedric, and Burke survive. They reach the underground surgery room where the baby creature was transplanted into Carnby. There, Hudgens takes Carnby's artifact and opens the gate. Millions of creatures awaken and run towards the gate. Burke kills Hudgens. The group places a bomb and runs away, only to realize that they cannot detonate it remotely. Burke returns and sacrifices himself. Carnby and Cedric rise to the surface at dawn but find the city evacuated. As they walk down the street, something runs toward them.