Due to its interactive nature, the film offers various possible "endings" that lead to the film's ending earlier depending on choices the viewer makes. However, all early endings result in the audience being re-routed to a choice that extends the story with the final shape of the film resembling the following plot points:  Kimmy Schmidt, now a hugely successful children's author, plans her wedding to Prince Frederick, who is thirteenth in line to the throne of England. Joining her are her friends Titus Andromedon, Lillian Kaushtupper, and Jacqueline White. When looking in her backpack, Kimmy finds a Choose Your Own Adventure-style book she has never seen in a hidden pocket. After reading the book and realizing it was not one of hers, she decides to travel to the prison in Durnsville, Indiana to question Richard Wayne Gary Wayne, the man who kept her captive for fifteen years, with Titus coming with her as support.  After realizing that Frederick never had a girlfriend before Kimmy, Lillian suggests he spend the night before his wedding coming to terms with his past and realizing how amazing Kimmy is. Left alone on the set of Titus' new action film, Jacqueline attempts to keep the secret that Titus is gone from the production staff.  In Durnsville, Richard Wayne Gary Wayne reveals to Kimmy that he had a second underground bunker. Using information Richard had accidentally disclosed and the name of the library the book was taken from, Kimmy and Titus go looking for the second bunker, their journey made even more imperative when they learn Richard has escaped from prison and is headed to the bunker himself.  Kimmy and Titus are eventually separated when Kimmy finds Richard and chases him. She manages to catch up to him when he trips on a branch and severely injures his ankle. When he claims that he cannot remember where the underground bunker is located, Kimmy decides to fashion him a splint and help him return home, only to discover the door to the hidden bunker. She manages to free the women inside.  Later on, Kimmy and Frederick marry in a ceremony officiated by Jacqueline's former stepdaughter Xanthippe. Depending on the choices made by the viewer, Kimmy reveals to Frederick that she is pregnant, and Frederick's schoolmate Kim Jong Un arrives to celebrate.