The Legend of Zorro (Japanese: 快傑ゾロ, Hepburn: Kaiketsu Zoro, lit. "Extraordinary Zorro") is a Japanese anime, based on the western character Zorro. The series was initially broadcast in Italy in 1994 before being broadcast in Japan two years later, albeit with some episodes skipped (only 46 of the original 52 episodes were shown in Japan).

Diego Vega, the eighteen-year-old scion of a local landowner, returns from studying in Spain and discovers that his homeland has fallen under the dictatorship of Commander Raymond and Lieutenant Gabriel. Outraged by the oppression, Diego decides to fight the tyrants. Disguised as Zorro, a masked swordsman, he helps the weak, riding away on his horse, Viento.

In his day-to-day life, Diego portrays himself as a clumsy and cowardly boy who flees when faced with dangerous situations only to appear moments later as Zorro. As the local hero, he is known to punish his enemies by cutting a Z-shaped mark into them with the tip of his blade. Diego is accompanied by Bernard, his sidekick, who wears a similar costume and has the nickname "Little Zorro."

Diego's childhood friend and sweetheart, Lolita Prideaux, believes that Spain changed him and she scolds him relentlessly for his idiotic behavior. Lolita is a sweet-tempered girl who wants to fight evil and protect the people by helping Zorro from behind the scenes. She later develops feelings for Zorro, though she is unaware of his true identity.[1][circular reference][2]

The town of Santazco holds its annual rodeo, and everyone gathered at the cliff over the ocean to watch it and have fun. Don Alejandro and Don Carlos, Diego's and Lolita's fathers respectively, have stored a part of their fortune inside a bag that is being laid on a bottomless barrel. The barrel is being held with a strong rope which ties two giant stalagmites upon the water. The challenge is that whoever of the two competitors reaches the barrel first without falling into the ocean takes the gold and wins the game. Diego has been chosen as one of the challengers. Everyone, minus Lolita, encouraged Diego to keep it up. The young man, wanting to impress his girlfriend for once, gave up on being a coward and reached the barrel. He achieved his goal, but when he heard Carlos saying that Diego will marry Lolita and the maiden expressing her true feelings about Zorro and that she will marry him, the lone child of Vega gave up the try, so he purposely lost his balance and fell into the ocean, causing Lolita to storm off out of anger and the rest to lower their heads out of shame, since he lost the gold and the game. And as Diego was recovering from his cold, he was accepting Maria's usual scoldings. On the other hand, Lolita felt depressed about the fact that despite she likes Diego, she can't marry him because he isn't as brave and strong as Zorro. Her thoughts were interrupted by Bernard, who called her for a trip they were about to take along with Diego, and Lolita agreed to come along.

The Vega family has recently bought a small herd of sheep from another ranch at San Vedos, to raise them at their own fields at Santazco, and in exchange they were about to give to the ranch an equal amount of their cows. Diego and Bernard were assigned from their father, Don Alejandro, to travel to San Vedos, so to get their family's merchandise. For their misfortune, the army has blocked off the road that leads to this town, and Commander Raymond and Lieutenant Gabriel inspected that roadblock where Sergeant Gonzales was in charge. The two officers spotted Diego and Bernard and learned the reason they wanted to pass through the roadblock. Raymond was in high spirits for some reason, so he just took lightly the youngsters' assignment and took Gabriel with him to continue their inspection of some other roadblocks. Gonzales revealed the reason of Raymond's sudden change of mood: tomorrow at midnight, the army is about to claim the immense property of Carlo Fernandez, Santazco's most wealthy person, who had passed away six months ago. Diego reminisced the events that occurred during Fernandez's funeral at that time. Commander Raymond has entered the church to announce to the attendees, including Diego and Lolita, that the army will claim the land and the wealth of Fernandez since the departed wasn't married and as such, he hasn't any heir. An old man named Lopez, who is the lawyer of Fernandez and is not from Santazco, since he was present at the funeral as well, objected by presenting to Raymond the letter which contains the testament of Fernandez, and shows clearly that the departed was indeed married and has a daughter, Hannah, who is now around 17 to 18 years old. But the family was living in another town before Fernandez moving to Santazco. And Lopez hasn't met in person the wife and the daughter yet. According to the law, the lawyer has a time limit of six months to find the only living heir, the daughter, so to begin the procedure for the property's claim by her, otherwise the property will pass on to the state, thus the army. Back in present, Diego asked the Sergeant why the army has established roadblocks in every borderline, and Gonzales, despite his hesitation, decided to tell the truth to his young friends. The army patrols every borderline, to prevent the daughter, Hannah, from coming to Santazco before the end of the time limit of the six months, so that Raymond achieves his goal. Anyway, Diego and Bernard completed the first part of their assignment during the sunset and were about to return to Santazco with the sheep they took for the Vega family, until their dog, Tackle, presented to them a shoe, which, as it seemed, belongs to a mysterious maiden who was lying unconscious at the riverside and was heavily injured. Diego helped her recovering. The maiden was heading out to Santazco and was running away from the soldiers who identified her from the golden cross she wears around her neck. After hiding successfully the maiden from Gabriel and his troops, whom were searching everywhere, Diego checked the words that were carved in the backside of the cross, and he and Bernard realized that they just helped Hannah, Carlo Fernandez's daughter. Hannah told to her new friends that when she was still a baby, her father abandoned her and his wife, wanting to live alone from now on. As such, Hannah was only raised by her mother, who has opened an orphanage after their abandonment from Fernandez. When her mother passed away last year, Hannah took on the orphanage and the care of the children, but the money she has now aren't enough to preserve the orphanage, and the children are suffering from hunger. So, she decided to claim her father's property, in order to donate half of the money to the orphanage and the other half to the church of Santazco which supports economically the orphanage. The only problem is the roadblocks of the army. Diego came up with a smart plan. First, he and Bernard hid the golden cross, and then gave a disguise to Hannah, so that she passes through the roadblock of Santazco unnoticed. Gonzales ate the bait, but he still had strict orders from Lieutenant Gabriel personally to prevent the passage of non-citizens of Santazco to the town through the roadblock, just for the present day. So, Diego bribed the dumb Sergeant with some of his family's red wine. Of course, Gonzales couldn't deny the offer, and let the Vega's children pass along with their sheep and their “shepherd”. They did manage to reach home at night, along with Hannah and her golden cross, whom they decided to hide somewhere in the yard, even if Gonzales just grew suspicious about the bad smell and wanted to find out where it comes from. The maiden fully recovered after drinking some water and expressed her thanks to Diego like every girl: with a kiss on the cheek. At that time, Lolita came here with a bottle of red wine for Don Alejandro, the father of Diego. Diego remembered the promise he gave to Gonzales before and took the bottle, giving away to Lolita unwillingly the true gender of the “shepherd” who had kissed him before. The revelation enraged Lolita, who demanded an explanation from Diego. Meanwhile, back in the roadblock, Gabriel was informed about the mysterious “shepherd” that Diego and Bernard brought along, and told Gonzales off for his foolishness, since he let by mistake the daughter of Fernandez whom were searching everywhere pass through the roadblock and sneak into town. So, he took his soldiers and went to Vega's house, where he indeed found Hannah due to the actions of Lolita. Totally angered, Gabriel threw both Diego and Hannah to jail, and started interrogating Diego about the golden cross's location, along with Commander Raymond, who was still in high spirits. Despite not taking any answers from the young man, the officers decided that it's OK that the golden cross wasn't found, since it's useless without the daughter of Fernandez, so if they just hold the maiden imprisoned until the end of the time limit, the property of Carlo Fernandez will pass on to the army, and the whole matter will end here, tomorrow at midnight. Raymond instructed Gabriel to guard Hannah, and the Lieutenant agreed. The next morning, Bernard explained to Lolita the whole story about Hannah, the property of her father, and the orphanage of her deceased mother. Wanting to offer her help, Lolita visited Diego at jail to inform him that she learned everything. Before that, she bribed the guard, who was Gonzales all right, with some red wine from her house, and the dumb Sergeant ate that bait as well. During the time limit of three minutes Gonzales gave to Lolita, Diego discussed with her a clever plan that will help Hannah escape from jail unnoticed. The clues of that plan are lots of copies from Zorro's clothes that Lolita herself tailed, and some bread Maria has baked. And of course, the golden cross is also involved. The bread, along with some red wine, is meant for Commander Raymond, Lopez the lawyer, the church priest that was also invited in the meeting at the notary office, and the other employees of the office. The copies of Zorro's clothes are for one specific purpose that every citizen of Santazco will fulfill: to distract the soldiers in a crazy and fun Whac-A-Mole game, while Bernard and Lolita will release Diego and Hannah and will help them escape to the notary office, so that Hannah will catch up with the time limit that ends in less than two hours. The first part of the plan succeeded, but then Diego had to distract Gabriel alone, so that the maiden will keep going. It didn't work, and the Lieutenant chased after Hannah, whom managed to stop. Before taking away her life, however, he was stopped by the real Zorro, who came to pick up Hannah and lead her to the notary office at full speed. In the last two minutes, Zorro arrived with the maiden, disarmed Raymond and his troops, and showed to everyone the proof of the maiden's true identity that was hiding inside one mere bread, Don Alejandro's offer: the golden cross. The priest read the words in the backside and realized that Hannah is the daughter of Carlo Fernandez, just when the bell rang at midnight. After signing his contribution at Raymond's uniform, Zorro ran away, and as usual, the whole army ran behind to capture him. Now that Hannah finally claimed her father's property, she will fulfill her promise: to donate half of the money to her mother's orphanage, and the other half to the church, so that she will continue taking care of the children with more economical help.

Bernard feels for a long time that his adult friends treat him like a little kid, and he tries hard to do all the housework that the grown-up men usually do, but he always fails. The woodcutting, for example. The only easy work that Maria assigns for the boy is shopping, and that bores and annoys him.

One day that Bernard went out for shopping, Lolita passed by and offered to lead him halfway. She then told her friend that she is going to the house of Vasquel, to take care of the daughter, Nikita, who, by the way, is Bernard's love interest. The family greeted Lolita and Bernard when they arrived out of the house. The parents have asked the lone daughter of their friends, Pulido, to stay along with Nikita, while they will go to meet a relative of theirs who had a little accident recently, and they will be back tomorrow at noon. Lolita assured the parents that she will take absolute care of their daughter, since Nikita and her have become good friends for a long time and Nikita has so much fun. Since the matter is solved, the parents asked Nikita to be very careful inside the house, to listen to Lolita all the time, and to go to sleep the appropriate time. The child agreed to everything. After the parents left on their trip, Nikita asked Bernard to stay with her and Lolita as well, but the boy said that he has to go shopping, so he and Figaro left to town. Anyway, the girls got inside the house to have fun and do a little housework. While Bernard was doing his errand, he noticed a few people who were watching Sergeant Gonzales sticking a bounty to a wall. So, he came closer and asked Gonzales why are these robbers wanted. The Sergeant didn't want to talk to the boy at first, but then he explained to him that these people are wanted for lots of burglaries they happened in town recently. When Bernard saw the reward in the bounty, he got excited, that he decided to capture these robbers. Gonzales laughed at him, since he is still a little kid, and he won't make his wish come true. Bernard got angry for the insult and hit him to his knee. Then he mocked him and ran away with Figaro. The enraged Sergeant chased after the boy, but he lost him. After he breathed a sigh of relief, Bernard overheard someone talking and went to see who was it. He realized that these three men who were having a conversation before are the wanted robbers of Santazco, and was totally surprised when he heard them talking about their upcoming robbery at the house of Nikita. They knew that the parents left on a trip and entrusted Nikita to Lolita, who are both harmless and won't mess up with their plans. Now that Bernard learned everything about the robbery, he ran to inform Diego, but then stopped, and thought to himself that he can capture the robbers all alone, something that will make him a true hero and a man. Of course, Figaro disagreed with his buddy's idea. With his determination turned on, Bernard followed the robbers in secret, but he drew their attention at last. The henchmen attempted to kill the boy, but the leader objected, telling his mates that if someone finds the boy dead, the investigation will begin and the army will reach to them at last. So, he just tormented Bernard to give him a big scare. Figaro barked for help. Some people around appeared after hearing the pit bull, so the robbers ditched the boy and ran away. Figaro helped his friend recover. To inform Nikita and Lolita about the robbery, Bernard first returned home (with the shopping, of course) and prepared his stuff, including an old sword, in order to stay at Vasquel's house as well. He got very excited when his love interest and Lolita, whom had warned about the robbers he came face to face before, allowed him to stay with them. Diego didn't know the reason Bernard decided to stay at Nikita's house, until he heard it from Lolita. And the young man realized that his brother was telling the truth when he took with him the old sword. So, he decided to keep Bernard on a leash, and intervene in case of something bad happens at him. Nikita had a talk with her friend during the noon, and asked him to protect her and Lolita from the three robbers, no matter what. After the talk, Bernard decided to stop acting like a child and get serious. So, he turned the entire house into a battlefield, by putting lots of traps inside and outside. With this, he was confident that the robbers wouldn't approach Nikita and Lolita. When the night fell, the girls went to bed, and Bernard prepared some more traps inside the house. At this time, the robbers arrived outside the house and were about to begin their operation. The leader, Sergio, sent his two insecure henchmen, José and Manuel, to sneak inside, so to boost their morale. From behind was Zorro, who observed the whole scene in secret. José and Manuel managed to enter the house despite the traps they faced, but now they had to face against Bernard himself, who gave them a wild beating with a frying pan and chased them around the house. Sergio, worrying about his henchmen and that their plan is about to fail, invaded the house from the front, but Zorro stopped him, and the two men fought each other. Bernard cornered the goons, but when Lolita and Nikita came out of their room, they cornered the boy by threatening to kill the girls if he doesn't give them the family's money and jewels. Despite being distracted by Nikita's voices, Zorro managed to defeat Sergio, and then asked Figaro to give his own helping hand to his friend. The pit bull took one of the candles that Bernard has put to the front door, and burned a little Manuel's clothes, forcing him to leave Nikita. Taking that chance, Bernard began his counterattack. He knocked out José, and Lolita knocked out Manuel, and everyone was saved at last. The girls tied up the goons and locked them inside the cellar, so to await the army to come and arrest them, alongside the leader.

It's weekend, and Diego has paid a visit to the neighboring seaside town Pueblo Naranja, for some family business his father has assigned. Bernard and Lolita accompanied him. After the assignment, however, the pals couldn't stay at the town for much longer and find a hotel to reside for the weekend, because they have heard from the local authorities about a bank robbery that happened last night. The thieves have escaped with a highly valued gold and remain hidden in the surrounding area, having avoided capture. Further investigation has led to the tracks of the infamous and dangerous gang “The Red Wolves”, who's committed many assaults the previous days. Since this gang lurks somewhere in the forest, the local authorities have instructed the coachmen on leading the tourists out of town with their stagecoaches, until the danger passes out. Unfortunately, Diego and his pals had a problem with one specific coachman, who is greedy, ungrateful, and doesn't accept any animal in his stagecoach. Bernard has brought along Figaro, and that's the reason this coachman behaves so stubbornly. In order to give his permission to the three, he asked five times the amount of one ticket, and Diego, who has already paid the normal amount of his and his pals' tickets, paid this amount as well. That enraged Lolita a lot, whom the coach assistant, Doug, has calmed down, explaining to her that this old man, Eduardo, is very wealthy, and has invested lots of money on this stagecoach, whom takes absolute care. Anyways, the three friends boarded the stagecoach. Suddenly, they heard a familiar voice calling for the coachman to stop. It was Sergeant Gonzales, who's also in Pueblo Naranja for a job he didn't want to reveal to his friends. After Gonzales boarded the stagecoach too, the road trip back to Santazco began.

Inside this stagecoach, aside from Diego, Bernard, Lolita, and Gonzales, there was also a woman along with her child, and two men. The woman is named Leticia Granados, and is a wealthy mistress from Spain. She was living in Pueblo Naranja along with her husband and their 6-year old son, Satopi, but they decided to depart to Santazco, in order for the child to attend one of the best schools that exist there, and he'll be starting first grade in a few days, so Leticia pressures her son, who's dumb, sensitive, and unwary, to study hard, in order for him to pass the exams and learn lots of things. The first man inside the stagecoach is named Maximiliano Domes. He's the doctor of Pueblo Naranja and one of the best. But he is addicted to alcohol for many years, and that causes troubles in his workplace. Domes left his hometown because he messed it up during a surgery operation, and the family of the patient has threatened to sue him for bad practice of the profession. Now he feels depressed and he has lost his confidence as a doctor. The second man, whose name is Jekkyl, is a mysterious individual who also came from Spain. Since he boarded the same stagecoach with the other people, he also goes to Santazco.

Pedro Gonzales is truly the most unlucky person that ever existed in life so far. Being the firstborn of a six-membered family of poor farmers, he was suffering a true martyrdom. No one could help economically his family, they didn't have enough money to buy food, water and clothing, and everyone marginalized them, so the family had to work very hard in order to survive during these circumstances. When he began his enlistment to the Spanish army, Gonzales suffered lots of tortures. He was promoted only to Sergeant, where he remained for almost two decades, and he was receiving a huge mistreatment from his superiors, especially Lieutenant Gabriel, who was treating Gonzales on a daily basis like a joke and was ordering him to obey to everything Commander Raymond says without any questions. Despite his hard life in the army, Gonzales eats well, is dressed with good clothes, and is filled every day with plenty of energy to spare at work, because the state covers the cost for all these goods. And he has high hopes that one day he will be promoted, and he'll start commanding his own battalion, in order to leave behind his tortures and make his living mother proud for once. But with lots of enemies he has made in his career and with only a few friends, not to mention about the ridicule he suffers from his fellow citizens, because of his deep adoration for food and wine, Gonzales may not be able to make a good deed, thanks to whom everyone without exception will love him and respect him.

One night, while he was taking a walk around the streets after eating and drinking well in a bar, Gonzales spotted a burglar sneaking inside a house. He was about to call for help, but then he decided to capture that burglar by himself, thinking that this might be his chance to make a good deed that will make him a true hero. So, he entered from the window as well, but the noise he made scared the burglar, who fled away. The lady of the house got scared seeing the Sergeant, and immediately thought that he is a thief, but Gonzales just passed by her and continued chasing after the burglar. And as it seemed that he lost him, the thief ambushed Gonzales and knocked him unconscious with a hit in the head. The whole town and the army learned immediately about the news of the robbery the next day. The first worst part is that the most valuable jewel of the lady, Mrs. Deluchia, was stolen. The second worst part is that Gonzales is accused for the theft of the jewel, and Mrs. Deluchia, as Raymond suggested, decided to offer a reward to anyone who finds and returns to her the wedding gift from her deceased husband. Now Gonzales, who has regained his senses, was about to get into the biggest trouble in his life, 'cause the whole Santazco considers him a thief, and everyone wants to capture him, so to obtain the reward: 100 gold coins for Mrs. Deluchia's jewel, and only 50 gold coins for Gonzales himself, without the jewel. Being hated and hunted by the society, Gonzales decided to find a shelter in the house of the people he fully trusts, Diego and Bernard. However, he couldn't remain covered, 'cause he just can't resist the smell of one delicious baked fresh pie. Because of this, when he charged at Maria's pies to devour them, the Sergeant gave away his presence to Diego and Bernard. Since they are good friends with him, the two brothers decided to hide Gonzales away from everyone, and in a parallel manner will help him capture the real thief, whom Gonzales barely saw before losing his senses. They all thought that the man will try to find a fence to sell the jewel of Mrs. Deluchia, and since Brown is the only known fence around Santazco, the three friends decided to spy on him, in order for him to lead them to the real burglar and the jewel. Lolita learned about Gonzales's presence in Vega's house, and decided to aid him, since they trust each other as well. The three youngsters gave the Sergeant some of Maria's clothes as a disguise, 'cause she is overweight just like Gonzales, and then crossed the streets looking for Brown, who was informed by a man of his that the one who stole Mrs. Deluchia's jewel last night wants to meet him as soon as possible, so that he gets rid of it before someone discovers him. As such, the fence got ready to meet that man, in hopes that he'll become rich thanks to that jewel. While Lolita was busy distracting her father, in order to keep him away from Gonzales, Diego and Bernard returned home to turn themselves into their respective alter egos, and left behind their dogs, Tackle and Figaro, to guard their friend. A few minutes later, Lolita came back and, after the Sergeant told her that the boys left in a hurry, she decided to stay with him. Suddenly, they saw Brown's carriage passing by, and since they know where it's going, they chased after it. The two guard dogs noticed the carriages moving away, and ran behind them. For the misfortune of Lolita and Gonzales, Brown caught them off-guard and, after a failed role play, he captured them. He assigned the guard of his prisoners to his subordinate, who'll deliver Gonzales to Mrs. Deluchia, so that he obtains the reward of 50 gold coins and give them to Brown, while he'll meet up with the thief and negotiate with him for the jewel of Mrs. Deluchia. And so, when the carriages reached an intersection, they took each a different path. The two dogs saw the respective paths the carriages took, so Tackle ran behind the one that only carries the fence, and Figaro awaited the two Zorros to arrive to the intersection, so that he shows them the path the other carriage took. Lieutenant Gabriel has also arrived to the house of Mrs. Deluchia. After Zorro sent away the man of Brown, leaving him with empty hands, he fought against Gabriel, distracting him enough so that Little Zorro will free Lolita and Gonzales, whom asked to come along and together, they will head straight to the source: Brown. The soldiers, along with Gabriel, chased after Gonzales and the two Zorros. Inside a cabin above a steep cliff, they found the fence and the real thief, Magby, whom the Sergeant both captured and presented to Gabriel, hoping that he'll be finally rewarded for this good deed of his. He didn't, of course, since Zorro helped him on everything. But at least, the jewel returned to its legal owner and the case closed.

This episode introduces Pepita, a little girl who has a tendency of making up stories that are proved to be lies. Due to this, she is bullied every day by the other kids, and is unable to make friends. Her father, who has passed away a few years ago, was a good businessman, but he was forced to close his business due to the debts that have been accumulated, and his family lost all their money. Pepita's mother has decided to run a flower stand, and simultaneously she works at a small bar in the town square, so she entrusts the stand to her daughter while working on the bar. But as it seems, no one in town wants to buy Pepita's flowers 'cause they don't want to mess up with her made-up stories.

The series soundtrack contains two pieces of thematic music. The opening theme is titled "Zorro", and the closing theme "Chikai" (誓い; "Oath"). Both are sung by Masaaki Endoh and are used for all aired episodes.[3]