The film follows the life of Jennifer Hills, continuing her story from I Spit on Your Grave. After Jennifer survived her assault and exacted revenge on the men who raped her, she avoided conviction for her killing spree and settled in Los Angeles. She's no longer an aspiring writer and now devotes her time to working as an assault helpline operator and going to group counseling under the assumed name "Angela Jitrenka". She's also periodically shown attending personal therapy for her ordeal. Jennifer's scarring experience has left her highly distrustful and defensive towards most men, including her colleague Matthew, who has a seemingly genuine interest in her.  While in group counseling, Jennifer develops a bond with one of the girls in the group, Marla, who also doesn't trust men. The duo begin their own personal crusade by exacting poetic justice for victims of sexual assault. However, just as Jennifer begins to enjoy life, Marla dies under mysterious circumstances and no one is found guilty of her death. She becomes acquainted with Detective McDylan, an investigator into Marla's death who, however, brings neither justice for Marla nor closure for Jennifer. Distraught and enraged at how the law couldn't help Marla or the rape victims in her support group, she decides to get vengeance.  Jennifer stalks and lures the unpunished rapists to a private place to torture and kill them. Her first victim is Marla's estranged boyfriend and alleged murderer, soon followed by the stepfather of a teenage member of the group. After befriending Oscar, the only male member of the support group who lost his daughter to suicide after a sexual assault, Jennifer tracks down his daughter's rapist. The man manages to overpower her as she tries to attack him until he's shot dead by the police, whose attention Jennifer had been drawing through her actions. The police take Jennifer in for questioning, revealing their knowledge of her true identity in an attempt to obtain a confession. However, Oscar, who had grown sympathetic to Jennifer's cause, walks into the police station after slashing his own arms, and publicly admits to the murders before dying from his wounds.  No longer the prime suspect, Jennifer is released but stays under police watch as a person of interest. She has a nervous breakdown, becoming further disillusioned with society and no longer able to discern well-meaning men from sexual predators. Clad in a suggestive red dress in order to bait men, Jennifer leaves her home, evading the police watch. First, she unsuccessfully attacks Matthew and scares him away, she then tries to lure a local thug who had been harassing her. As Jennifer is about to kill him, she's shot and arrested by McDylan, who had been trailing her the entire time.  It's now revealed Jennifer's personal therapy sessions were part of her mandatory treatment following a two-year sentence for attempted murder, lacking evidence of the murders that she actually committed. After completing the final session before her release, Jennifer leaves the doctor's office and switches the "therapist" sign on the door to read "the rapist". She's then attacked by two inmates, whom she kills, before killing her therapist who had left the room to stop it, but this is revealed to be a daydream, indicating that Jennifer's fantasies of killing all rapists aren't over. This shows that this was merely another vision, as she walks down the hallway completely clean.