In 1953, Katherine Ann Watson, a 30-year-old graduate student from the Department of Art History at UCLA and Oakland State, takes a position teaching the history of art at Wellesley College.  At her first class, Katherine discovers her students have memorized the entire textbook and syllabus, so she introduces them to modern art and encourages discussion about what is good art. Katherine comes to know them, seeking to inspire them to achieve more than marriage.  Opinionated Elizabeth "Betty" Warren is outspokenly conservative. She does not understand why Katherine is not married, and insists a universal standard exists for good art. She writes editorials for the college paper, exposing campus nurse and lesbian Amanda Armstrong as a supplier of contraception, resulting in her termination.  Other editorials attack Katherine for advocating that women seek a career instead of being wives and mothers. Betty cannot wait to marry Spencer and expects the traditional exemptions from attending class as a married woman; however, Katherine insists she will mark her on merit.  Constance "Connie" Baker begins dating Betty's cousin, Charlie, but Betty tells her he is together with Deb MacIntyre. Believing her, she cuts ties with him. However, some weeks later, Connie and Charlie reconnect, with him telling her he had stopped seeing Deb after the previous summer.  Joan Brandwyn considers studying law, so Katherine encourages her to apply to Yale Law School. Accepted, she still opts to play the role of a housewife to Tom Donegal. She tells Katherine that choosing to be a wife and mother does not reduce her intelligence.  Giselle Levy has several lovers and liberal views about sex. She admires Katherine for encouraging the students to be independent, while earning Betty's enmity.  Katherine declines a marriage proposal from her California boyfriend as she does not love him enough, and begins seeing the Wellesley Italian professor, Bill Dunbar. He is charming and full of stories about Europe and his heroic actions in Italy during the war. He has also had affairs with students, including Giselle, and Katherine makes him promise he will stop.  The relationship progresses, but when Katherine learns that Bill spent the entire war at the Army Languages Center on Long Island, she breaks up with him. He responds that she did not come to Wellesley to help the students find their way, but rather her way.  Betty's marriage falls apart after Spencer neglects her and Giselle sees him with another woman. Rather than offering support, Betty’s mother orders her to return to her husband. Betty visits Giselle in her dorm, at first attacking her for her promiscuity, but eventually allowing Giselle to comfort her. In turn, Betty regrets how she has treated Katherine with her poor behavior. Eventually, influenced by her, Betty files for divorce and looks with Giselle for an apartment in Greenwich Village.  When Betty’s mother confronts her for what she has done, Betty reveals her frustration with her for not supporting her when she asked for it. She says the only person who cared about her enough to help her out was Katherine. Betty says she is going to have a life of her own.  Katherine's course is popular, so she is invited to return, but under certain conditions: she must follow the syllabus, submit lesson plans for approval, stop giving private advice to scholars and keep a strictly professional relationship with all faculty members and students.  Katherine decides to leave to explore Europe. In the final scene, Betty dedicates her last editorial to Katherine, calling her "an extraordinary woman who lived by example and compelled us all to see the world through new eyes." As she leaves in a taxi, all her students follow on their bicycles, with Betty reaching out to say goodbye until the taxi speeds away.