The story focuses on the Turtles in the days leading up to and following the success of their single "Happy Together". Howard Kaylan and Mark Volman receive their draft cards and Frank Zappa tells them to seek advice from Herb Cohen, Zappa's manager and Kaylan's cousin, to avoid being drafted in the Vietnam War. Cohen advises Kaylan to show up to the draft board intoxicated from drug use, not to bathe or sleep, and to behave so obnoxiously that the Army will not draft him, leading Kaylan and Volman to engage in a sleepless night of marijuana smoking before their draft review, which they fail due to being high while taking the tests, and Kaylan pretending to be homosexual in front of the physician and expressing psychotic views to the psychiatrist.  Because they avoid the draft, the Turtles fly to England where Graham Nash and Donovan play them an advance reel to reel recording of the unreleased Beatles album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, which the Turtles declare to be the greatest album they ever heard. At a nearby pub, the Turtles have a disastrous meeting with the Beatles, in which Turtles guitarist Jim Tucker is verbally abused by John Lennon, leading the Turtles to leave the bar as Kaylan stays behind and Brian Jones, the founder of the Rolling Stones, introduces Kaylan to Jimi Hendrix, who Kaylan ends up having dinner and a conversation with, while the two drink much alcohol and smoke marijuana, with the evening ultimately ending with Kaylan vomiting on Hendrix' suit.  Kaylan ultimately purchases copies of Sgt. Pepper and the Jimi Hendrix Experience's debut, Are You Experienced? and Tucker quits the Turtles and the music industry, never getting over his treatment by John Lennon,<ref>[http://musoscribe.com/features/howard_kaylan_my_dinner_with_jimi.shtml Howard Kaylan interview: "My Dinner with Jimi". Musoscribe.com by Bill Kopp] Retrieved 18-02-11</ref> although the postscript states that Tucker remains a fan of the Beatles' music.  Cast  Starring Justin Henry as Howard Kaylan Jason Boggs as Mark Volman Royale Watkins as Jimi Hendrix Sean Maysonet as Jim Tucker  Special appearances John Corbett as Henry Diltz George Wendt as Bill Uttley Taylor Negron as the psychiatrist Curtis Armstrong as Herb Cohen Jay Michael Ferguson as Brian Jones Brian Groh as John Lennon Quinton Flynn as Paul McCartney Jimm Marie Simon as Jane Asher Nate Dushku as George Harrison Ben Bode as Ringo Starr Lisa Brounstein as Mama Cass Elliot Bret Roberts as Jim Morrison Adam Tomei as Frank Zappa Chris Soldevilla as Graham Nash  ReceptionMy Dinner with Jimi'' received the best screenplay award at the 2003 Slamdunk Film Festival in Park City, Utah, and was well received when it was shown as part of the Santa Monica Film Festival.