In A.D. 1555, Connor MacLeod returns to his former home in Glenfinnan, Scotland, to save his mother from village priest Jacob Kell. Kell executes Connor's mother for witchcraft. Enraged, Connor kills both Kell and Kell's adoptive father, Father Rainey. He sets Glenfinnan ablaze before leaving with his mother's body. Kell is reborn as an Immortal, and vows vengeance against Connor for Rainey's death. He spends the next four centuries killing people Connor cares about. Kell amasses great power by ignoring the rules of The Game; he recruits several lesser Immortals as disciples who overpower other Immortals so Kell can take their heads.  Sometime after the death of the Kurgan, Kell kills Connor's adopted daughter Rachel Ellenstein. Heartbroken, Connor departs for The Sanctuary, where Immortals are under surveillance by a subgroup of Watchers to prevent The Prize from being won.  A decade later, Kell and his disciples attack the Sanctuary, and Connor is believed to have been beheaded along with the other Immortals there. Duncan MacLeod, compelled by a vision he has of the slaughter, begins to investigate. Meanwhile, Matthew Hale, the Watcher supervising the sanctuary, looks on at the carnage, and decides to turn to "volunteers" to refill their numbers. Duncan leaves London for New York, and goes to Connor's NYC loft, which was destroyed in the explosion that killed Rachel. Sensing an Immortal, he turns to see Kate, his wife from 200 years before. Then Kell's posse arrives, and fights Duncan (disregarding the rule of one-on-one combat). The fighting stops when Kell arrives. However, Carlos shoots Duncan, who falls on a spike, rendering him unconscious. Kell is furious with Carlos, and beheads him – as the Quickening begins, a van drives up to where Duncan fell, and takes him away.  After awakening, Duncan realizes that he has been taken by Watchers. They want to keep him in the Sanctuary so that the Prize cannot be won by any Immortal. He is later saved with the help of Methos and Watcher Joe Dawson. Kell wants to kill Duncan in order to torture Connor. Goaded by Kell to kill him,  Connor is too guilt-ridden by the deaths of all his loved ones to put up a fight and is easily defeated. Duncan later confronts Kate (now using the alias "Faith") at a fashion-shoot, and asks her why she is with Kell. She tells him how much she hates the fact that she will never have children or grow old and die, and believes that Kell understands her pain. Duncan must earn her forgiveness, or face her as an embittered part of Kell's faction. Later on in his hotel room, Kate arrives after having a chat with Kell, and the two make love. Duncan touches the scar that was caused when he made her Immortal, and apologizes to Faith for what he did. She tells Duncan that she will never forgive him; he tells her that he will wait, even if it takes centuries.  Ultimately, Kell executes his group in a mock Last Supper to gain their powers, including possibly Faith. Later on a rooftop, Connor meets Duncan and intentionally starts a sword-fight with him. Telling him that neither one of them can defeat Kell alone, Connor convinces Duncan that he must allow himself to be beheaded in order for Duncan to have enough power to rival Kell. After an emotional goodbye, Duncan ends the fight, sorrowfully beheading his beloved clansman, Connor.  Soon after, Duncan and Kell engage in a final battle. Hale attempts to interfere and take Duncan back to the Sanctuary, but Joe arrives and shoots him dead. Just before Kell is victorious, Connor's spirit takes control of Duncan, which gives him the strength to continue. Duncan then decapitates Kell, avenging Connor and all of Connor's loved ones. Duncan absorbs all of Kell's power, taking his place as the most powerful immortal in existence. He then goes to Glencoe, Scotland to bury Connor next to Heather and Ramírez.   Alternative ending (Producer's Cut)  After Duncan buries Connor, Kate appears and explains that Kell spared her life. After proclaiming that her "Faith"-persona is "dead," and that she is giving "Kate" another try, she and Duncan share a kiss, suggesting that they will reconcile their marriage and live together forever.