Late at night, friends Dick, Zeke, and Earl hang out together until Dick sustains unexplained severe injuries. The friends leave him at an emergency room.  Earl returns home and tells his girlfriend Lake that he has to leave town for a family emergency, but he attends a shift at his warehouse job.  Zeke sneaks into bed, fooling his wife Lydia into thinking he had been asleep. She asks him to drive their daughter Cynthia to school. He agrees and accidentally pulls Dick's wallet out; he and Earl took it from him, as he lay unconscious. Zeke takes the driver's license and puts it on the counter and gets Cynthia to the garage but realizes his back seat is covered in blood; he covers it with a sheet.  As the two men begin their day, Doctor Richter—the emergency room doctor—calls the police department to tell them Dick has died overnight from severe rectal hemorrhaging.  As Zeke goes inside a gas station and inside the store, Cynthia tells Officer Dudley about Dick's wallet. Zeke notices the blood in the back seat has soaked into Cynthia's dress. He runs inside to keep the police officer from seeing and gives her the wallet.  Earl arrives at Zeke's house and they scrub the blood from out of the back seat. Earl takes Cynthia to school in his truck where he speaks to Dick's widow Jane. The duo decide to dump the car in a river to hide the evidence.  At the police station, Sheriff Spenser enlists Dudley to help her with the murder. The next morning Zeke lies to Lydia saying their car was stolen the night before, so she calls the police and Dudley and Spenser arrive to question her. The interrogation is brief and Richter calls the police and tells them horse semen was in Dick's rectum.  Cynthia overhears Zeke and tells Lydia how he drove her in the car that morning. Lydia confronts Zeke about the inconsistencies and Zeke breaks down and tells her that Dick is dead and he confesses the three friends participated in zoophilic acts for years, and Dick died from having sex with Dick and Jane's horse Comet. Lydia demands that he leave.  At Jane's house, she walks to their stable to find Zeke drunk. The two go to Zeke's home where Dudley is waiting to question about the connection between the car, wallet and Dick's death not realizing Jane is Dick's widow. Lydia and Zeke's stories spiral out of control until he runs out of the kitchen. Dudley chases him and Lydia tells Jane to stay so she can tell her how Dick died. Zeke frees Comet and begs him to run away as Dudley arrests him.  The next morning, Dudley and Spenser walk to the site of the ditched car and the sheriff explains that Zeke has been released. Dudley is incredulous but her boss explains that these charges would ruin the lives of Lydia, Cynthia and Jane. Zeke goes to Cynthia's school where Lydia tells him to get out of their lives.  That night, Zeke goes to Earl and Lake's motel room. Zeke asks what Earl's plan is and he says that he'll come up with something, and starts playing "How You Remind Me" on his guitar.