William Reynolds (Andrew Chaney) is an assassin for the British East India Company, who attempts to "retire". His boss Charles Kemp (John Rhys-Davies) tries to have him killed. He flees, taking the name and job of a vicar who died saving William's life.  William attempts to settle into the quiet life of a vicar (with a surprising degree of success) and falls in love with Charlotte Holloway (Kara Killmer).  An old associate happens upon the quiet town and confronts William, who kills him. Later, William asks Charlotte to marry him, and she agrees on the condition of her uncle's approval.  At Christmas, Charlotte's uncle arrives and is revealed to be Charles Kemp, who discloses William's true identity to Charlotte and tries (again) to kill him. William flees to the colony of Pennsylvania and finds a job in Benjamin Franklin's (Alan Madlane) printing shop.  William later discovers that Charlotte and her uncle have arrived in America, with Kemp supporting the loyalists on behalf of the East India Company. William sets out to redeem his name before reuniting with Charlotte. He works as a printer by day and a masked vigilante by night, thwarting the evil plans of the East India Company.   William attends a masked ball in New York with the intention of revealing documents outlining the role of the East India Company, specifically Charles Kemp. He saves the life of George Washington (John Arden McClure), but is framed and arrested by Kemp and sentenced to be hanged at dawn.  Realizing her feelings for William as well as her uncle's evilness, Charlotte steals her uncle's next set of plans and breaks William out of the prison ship. They flee to Philadelphia where she is captured by her uncle's men. Kemp reveals to her that he has planted barrels of gunpowder under various important buildings in the city, notably Independence Hall where the Continental Congress is debating the Declaration of Independence, with the explosives set to go off at noon, just when the Declaration of Independence is about to be approved. William discovers the gunpowder and traces the trigger back through the new sewer system to Windmill Island, where Kemp and his men have set up a generator and are also holding Charlotte. After revealing the plot to Franklin, William swims to the island and kills Kemp. He rescues Charlotte and blows up the laboratory, preventing disaster. The Declaration of Independence is passed without incident, much to Franklin's relief.  The two swim back to shore where Franklin and some soldiers are waiting for them with a prison carriage. The surviving loyalists are arrested, while Charlotte insists on accompanying William. Out of their earshot, Franklin says that the extradition policy between Pennsylvania and New York is vague. Charlotte and Will discover a note saying that the carriage is not taking Will to prison. Will gives Charlotte the ring he has been carrying since he first asked her to marry him back in England, she accepts, and the two kiss.