Margaret Tate is a Canadian executive editor-in-chief of a New York City book publishing company, and, due to her dominating personality, is disliked by her employees. She learns from her superior Chairman Bergen that her visa renewal application has been denied due to visa term violation and she faces deportation back to Canada.   Not wanting to lose her position and life in New York, she blackmails her long-suffering personal assistant Andrew Paxton into marrying her to get a green card. She reminds Andrew that if she is deported, the work he put in as her assistant will be lost, which will set back his dream to become an editor.  U.S. immigration agent Gilbertson informs them that he suspects they are committing fraud to avoid Margaret's deportation. He explains they will be questioned about each other separately. If their answers do not match, Margaret will be deported to Canada permanently and Andrew will be convicted of a felony, including a $250,000 fine and five years in prison. Andrew insists that Margaret make him an editor after their marriage and publish a book he has been recommending to her, which she accepts.  They travel to Andrew's hometown of Sitka, Alaska to meet his family, which includes his mother, Grace, and grandmother Annie, known as "Gammy". On the way to the family home, Margaret learns that Andrew's family is actually very wealthy, evidenced by most businesses bearing the family name.   At the welcome home party, Andrew confronts his father Joe, who is angry about Andrew dating the boss he has so long disliked and believes he is using her to get ahead in his career. After their argument, Andrew announces their engagement.   The next day, Grace and Annie take Margaret to a local bar for her bachelorette party to watch stripper Ramone, a locally famous but over-the-hill exotic dancer. Stepping away from the show, Andrew's ex-girlfriend Gertrude tells Margaret that Andrew wanted to become an editor and make his own life. He'd proposed, however she'd refused because she did not want to leave Sitka for New York. Margaret also learns of the conflict between Andrew and Joe.   That night, Margaret asks Andrew about his relationship with his father, but he refuses to talk. Instead, she opens up to him about her own life.   The next day, the family convinces them to marry the following day. Margaret realizes how close and real Andrew's family is, which moves her deeply. Getting on Andrew's boat, she speeds away with him. She admits that she has been alone since she was 16 after her parents died, and had forgotten what it felt like to have a family. She lets go of the helm and stumbles to the back of the boat. Andrew makes a sharp turn to avoid hitting a buoy, Margaret falls out, and Andrew saves her as she cannot swim.   Meanwhile, Joe contacts Gilbertson (how he even knows about him is unclear) and asks him to come to Sitka, where he offers Margaret and Andrew a deal: If they confess the engagement is a sham, Margaret will simply be deported and there will be no further penalties. They refuse, continuing to claim they are really in love. However, at the wedding, Margaret, touched by Andrews' family's sincerity, stops the ceremony and tells the truth to the guests and Gilbertson, who informs her she has 24 hours to leave for Canada.  Margaret returns to the Paxton home to collect her belongings. Andrew rushes to her room to find she has already left, and that she has left his book manuscript with a note of praise and a promise to publish it. Gertrude comforts him and asks if he is going to go after her. As he hurries to find Margaret, another argument arises between him and Joe.   Annie suddenly shows symptoms of a heart attack. As she and the family are airlifted to the hospital, she convinces Andrew to admit he really loves Margaret, and to reconcile with her before she (Annie) passes away. Once he agrees, she admits to faking the heart attack to get their attention, and tells the pilot to head to the airport to try to catch up to Margaret. However, her plane takes off just as they arrive.  Andrew's parents realize he really loves Margaret. He returns to New York as Margaret is packing up her things in her office. He tells her he loves her in front of the entire office staff, and they kiss. Some time later, they go to Gilbertson to inform him that they are again engaged, but for real. Gilbertson, sensing their sincerity, exclaims, "Let's do it!"  During the credits, Gilbertson questions not only Margaret and Andrew, but also Andrew's family and Ramone, just because it was a fun way to end a comedy.