Panem is a dystopian nation divided into twelve districts, ruled by the Capitol. As punishment for a failed rebellion many years before, each district must annually choose two tributes, one boy and one girl between the ages of twelve and eighteen, to fight to the death in the annual Hunger Games, until one victor remains. The event is televised across the Capitol and all districts, who are forced to watch.   After her twelve-year-old sister, Primrose, is selected, sixteen-year-old Katniss Everdeen of District 12 volunteers to take her place in the 74th Hunger Games. She and fellow male tribute, Peeta Mellark, are escorted to the Capitol by their chaperone, Effie Trinket, and mentor, Haymitch Abernathy, who was the only living victor from District 12. Haymitch stresses the importance of gaining sponsors, as they can provide potentially life-saving gifts during the Games. During a televised interview with Caesar Flickerman, Peeta confesses his feelings for Katniss, which she initially sees as an attempt to attract sponsors; she later learns his feelings are genuine.  At the start of the Games, Katniss grabs supplies scattered around the Cornucopia, the Games' starting point, before fleeing into the surrounding forests and narrowly escaping death. She tries to distance herself from other tributes, but Seneca Crane, the Head Gamemaker, triggers a forest fire to drive her back towards them. She runs into the Careers – composed of District 1's tributes, Marvel and Glimmer, and District 2's tributes, Cato and Clove – and climbs a tree. Peeta, seemingly allied with the Careers, suggests they wait her out. Rue, District 11's female tribute, signals Katniss towards a nest of genetically modified venomous wasps, which Katniss cuts to fall onto the sleeping Careers below; Glimmer is killed, while Peeta and the others escape. Katniss retrieves Glimmer's bow but falls ill from being stung several times. Peeta returns and urges her to flee before making his own escape from the Careers.  Rue helps Katniss recover, and the two become friends and allies. Rue distracts the Careers while Katniss destroys a stockpile of their supplies by triggering the mines guarding it. However, Marvel fatally impales Rue with his spear just as Katniss shoots him. She comforts Rue by singing, and after she dies, adorns her body with flowers, an act which incites a riot in District 11. Panem President Coriolanus Snow warns Crane he is displeased about the unrest, stating the Games' purpose is to instill fear to prevent future uprisings.  Haymitch persuades Crane to alter the rules of the Games, allowing for two victors if they are from the same district, suggesting that it would appease the audience. Katniss finds Peeta severely injured, and the two take shelter in a cave. Despite Peeta's protests, Katniss leaves to get medicine at the Cornucopia. She is ambushed and overpowered by Clove, who gloats about Rue's death before preparing the killing blow. Thresh, District 11's male tribute, intervenes and kills Clove. He spares Katniss in memory of Rue. Katniss returns to the cave with the medicine and tends to Peeta, whose wounds heal overnight.  While out hunting for food, Katniss hears a cannon blast, signaling a death. She rushes to Peeta, who has unwittingly collected deadly nightlock berries. The two find Foxface's body, District 5's female tribute, poisoned by the nightlock berries she had gathered while watching Peeta. As the Games draw to a close, Crane unleashes genetically modified beasts that kill Thresh and force Katniss, Peeta, and Cato – the final tributes – to climb onto the Cornucopia's roof. Cato grabs Peeta in a headlock; Katniss shoots his hand, allowing Peeta to throw him into the beasts below. Katniss then shoots Cato to end his suffering.  Suddenly, Crane revokes the rule change allowing for two victors. Peeta implores Katniss to shoot him, but she convinces him to consume nightlock berries with her. Just as they are about to eat the berries, however, Crane declares them co-victors. After the Games, Haymitch warns Katniss of the enemies she has made through her rebellious acts. Snow orders for Crane to be locked in a room with a bowl of nightlock berries, before contemplating his next course of action.