Sisters Lisa and Kate are on vacation in Mexico after Lisa's boyfriend recently broke up with her. They decide to go shark watching from a diving cage with two local men. At the docks Lisa, who has never dived, is wary of the boat and its owner, Captain Taylor. They lie to him and tell him that they are both experienced divers and he agrees to take them out.  Lisa and Kate make a descent in a cage, with masks that allow them to talk to Taylor on the surface and to each other. They are soon surrounded by great white sharks, but the winch boom breaks free and the cage sinks to the ocean floor, 47 metres below the surface and out of communication range with the boat. Kate swims up until she is able to resume communication with Taylor, who tells her that one of his men, Javier, will be coming down with a spare winch cable. He advises them to stay in the cage because the sharks are close by. Both women are running out of air but soon see a flashlight in the distance and Lisa swims out to attract attention, managing to avoid a shark which tries to attack her.  She becomes disoriented and Javier attempts to usher her back towards safety, but he is killed by a great white shark. Lisa takes his spear gun and the winch cable and swims back to the cage. The spare cable is attached but it snaps and the cage sinks back down, landing on Lisa's leg and pinning her. Kate tells Taylor they are low on air and Lisa is trapped. He sends air tanks down and tells them the coast guard is an hour away. He also warns that the second tank may cause nitrogen narcosis, which can lead to hallucinations. Kate leaves the cage to retrieve the air tanks and also finds three flares, but as she returns to the cage, she is attacked and (presumably) devoured by a great white shark.  Lisa uses her BCD to lift up the cage, freeing her leg and she swims to Kate, who appears to only be wounded. Due to the nature of Kate's injuries, the sisters decide to swim to the surface, using one of the flares to scare off the sharks. At the 20-meter mark, Taylor reminds them they must wait five minutes to decompress and avoid the bends. Kate accidentally drops the second flare and lights the third, discovering that they are surrounded by sharks.  As the third flare goes out, they drop their gear and make a break for the surface. A shark bites one of Lisa's legs but she escapes and both women make it to the boat. Lisa is attacked again and when the men finally manage to pull the sisters onto the boat, they see that she has lost half of her leg.  It is then revealed that Lisa has been hallucinating due to nitrogen narcosis and that she is still at the bottom of the ocean with her leg pinned under the cage, with Kate gone. As Coast Guard divers arrive to rescue her, she begins coming out of her hallucination, calling out for Kate, who she realizes was killed earlier by the great white shark.