Rose is a young and talented English violinist, a rising star in the world of classical music. Her agent and manager Charles has been taking care of her since her mother's demise when Rose was just sixteen. Her father - the infamous composer Richard Marlowe - abandoned the family and became a recluse soon after Rose's birth. Now in her twenties, Rose receives news of her father's death, and that she inherited his mansion in France. Despite the estrangement, the news affects Rose and she decides to visit her late father's house, hoping to understand his reason for abandoning the family all those years ago, much to Charles' disapproval.  At the mansion Rose discovers that her father had spent the last twenty-odd years working on a peculiar sonata for the violin. She contacts Charles, and sends him a sample of the sheet music.  Charles' investigation reveals that Richard may have been a member of a satanic cult that believed music was the key to summoning the Antichrist. Despite the revelation, Charles becomes fascinated with the sonata, hoping to use it to bring fame to Rose, himself and his struggling business. He travels to the mansion under the pretext of comforting Rose.  Meanwhile, Rose begins to notice strange things happening around the mansion, and even sees an apparition of her dead father, who points her towards the old chapel nearby. Going there Rose discovers audiotapes of Richard torturing and murdering children, as it apparently helped him compose the sonata. Scared, Rose returns to the mansion and tells Charles about her discovery, saying that the sonata is a work of evil and must to be destroyed. The two have a disagreement, but Charles seemingly backs down. As he is pouring tea, he slips some sleeping pills into Rose's cup. Once she goes to bed, Charles begins deciphering the sonata using the torture tapes. One of the tapes eventually wakes Rose from her sleep and she discovers a mad and aggressive Charles, who demands that she play the sonata to him. Not having a choice, she complies and as she plays, a misty figure appears and flies around the room, eventually making its way to Charles, strangling him.  In the closing scene of the film, Rose is back in England, performing the sonata to a full audience for the first time. Just as she plays the first notes, her eyes start glowing red, and the screen fades to black.