Rafael "Rafe" Khatchadorian lives in a middle-class home with his mother Jules, his rebellious younger sister Georgia, and Jules's lazy, child-hating boyfriend (later fiancé) Carl, who goes by the nickname Bear. Rafe has an overactive imagination and is very passionate about his artistic talent.  Rafe is not enthusiastic about starting his first day at Hills Village Middle School, he's reminded it's his last option, as he's been kicked out of the other two in the area already. It does not go as he hoped, as he discovers Principal Ken Dwight and Vice-Principal Ida Stricker are even worse than the bullies.  After Dwight destroys Rafe's sketchbook by dissolving it in a bucket of acid, Rafe and his imaginary friend Leo (his late younger brother who died from cancer) come up with a plan to start a massive "insurrection" against Principal Dwight and Stricker, by breaking every rule in the rule book.  They unleash several pranks on Principal Dwight, Stricker, and the school staff, including putting sticky notes all over the school, filling the teacher's lounge with plastic balls, dyeing Principal Dwight's hair pink, and turning the school's trophy case into a fish tank. He refers to this plan as "Operation: Rules Aren't For Everyone", or R.A.F.E..  As the annual B.L.A.A.R. (BaseLine Assessment of Academic Readiness) test is coming up, Dwight sees an opportunity to eliminate Rafe's class from the test. Rafe, and the whole class, are suspended for the pranks the day before the test. In addition, Rafe's teacher, Mr. Teller is fired as Principal Dwight suspects his involvement. Dwight then offers Rafe a deal to let his class take the fall and he'll be the only one not suspended. However, Rafe deliberately sets off the sprinkler system, and Dwight immediately expels him.  Jeanne Galleta shows Rafe that Dwight created an alibi by putting fake evidence in their lockers in order to stop their class from taking the B.L.A.A.R. Rafe devises a plan to stop the test and expose Dwight and Stricker along with Jeanne, Leo, Georgia, Gus, Miller, and his suspended class. The next day, both Dwight and Stricker are fired after Teller and Superintendent Hwang receive the evidence and decide to press charges on both of them.  As Dwight walks out, he is pranked with green hair dye in his hat. Jules breaks up with Bear after finding out his true nature, and Rafe is re-instated into HVMS and says goodbye to imaginary Leo (thereby finally coming to terms with Leo's death). He shares a kiss with Jeanne which breaks rule #86, no public displays of affection, thus completing operation R.A.F.E. as Leo watches from his imaginary UFO. The film ends with the two headed aliens in the UFO having a dance party, and a camera viewing earth.