New York City radio producer Judd Altman finds out his wife Quinn has been having an affair with his boss Wade for a year. After he moves out, his sister Wendy calls to tell him their father Mort has died.  In Upstate New York, the Altmans gather for the funeral at their mother's home, where they reconnect with Wendy's ex-boyfriend Horry Callen, who suffered a brain injury years before, and his mother Linda. Wendy is unhappy because her workaholic husband Barry neglects her. Judd reunites with his older brother Paul and Paul's wife Annie, who had once been Judd's girlfriend. The youngest brother, Phillip, arrives late with his new girlfriend, Tracy, who is his former therapist and several years his senior.  The Altmans' mother Hilary tells her children their father, though an atheist, wanted them to sit shiva, presided over by the Altmans' childhood friend, Rabbi Charles "Boner" Grodner. Wendy is the only one in the family who knows about Judd's marital problems. Judd also reunites with Penny Moore, a woman who had a crush on him in high school.  During a family gathering, Wendy drunkenly badgers Judd to tell the truth about Quinn. Phillip laments being seen as the family screw-up, while flirting with another woman in front of Tracy. Judd blurts out that Quinn was cheating on him and he plans to divorce her. Quinn shows up the next day and reveals she's pregnant with Judd's child. Phillip finds out about the pregnancy and reveals this to the family.  Judd spends the night with Penny, and then spends the day with her. Wendy visits Horry in his backyard, and expresses remorse over the accident that caused Horry's brain injury. The family goes to temple, where the brothers sneak out to smoke marijuana Judd found in his father's suit. Annie, upset that she and Paul haven't conceived, tries to seduce Judd in hopes that he will impregnate her, but he rejects her. A few days later, after Barry leaves for a conference, Wendy has sex with Horry, with whom she is still in love.  Quinn calls Judd out of fear that she is having a miscarriage, and he admits to Penny that Quinn is pregnant. Judd gets to the hospital to be with Quinn where Wade also shows up. The baby, which is revealed to be a girl, survives. Judd and Wade get into a fight in the waiting room. When Philip and Wendy arrive, she punches Wade in the face, and Judd gets a group of young men who witnessed the confrontation to flip Wade’s Jaguar E-Type. As he leaves, Wade tells Judd he's not ready to be a step-father, and leaves Quinn. Judd informs her that even though their marriage is over, he will support her in raising their daughter when the baby is born.  The next day, Tracy talks with Judd and decides to break up with Phillip. Judd drives to Penny's to talk to her, but she won't listen. Later, Annie apologizes to Judd, tearfully confessing that she is frustrated that she can't get pregnant. Judd replies that she should focus on what she and Paul do have. Paul sees Judd hugging her and assumes Judd is hitting on her.  Paul attacks Judd as Tracy leaves Phillip, resulting in the three brothers fighting. Hilary silences everyone by kissing Linda passionately. She informs them that she and Linda are in love and that they had Mort's blessing. She admits the shiva was her idea, in order to come out to her children and get them to reconnect. The siblings are shocked, but see their mother is happy and accept it.  One night, when the power goes out in the basement, Judd attempts to fix the fusebox, only to receive an electric shock and be knocked out. He dreams of a childhood memory of falling off his bike and of Mort comforting him. Judd wakes up crying, finally mourning his father.  Judd apologizes to Penny for not being honest and promises to call her. Realizing that they’re in love with each other, Judd and Penny kiss passionately as they embrace. Wendy leaves with her two children, tearing up as she again leaves Horry. The brothers reconcile and Paul offers Phillip a job at their father's sporting goods store. Judd quietly slips out, steals Phillip's Porsche, and drives up the highway to Maine, where he had always dreamed of going.