Asha is an economist who has recently broken off her engagement and left a Wall Street banking career behind to work for a microfinance startup in New Jersey. Asha's mother Suneeta, concerned for her future and against the advice of her husband Vijay, sets up a dating profile for her.  Asha agrees to meet Ravi, who was found through the website his parents signed him up on, under the condition she won't have to meet with any others. Suneeta counterproposes that she attend all of the weddings she's been invited to in order to get her profile deleted from the site.  Their first date goes badly as Asha explains she's only there to appease her mother. She's too bogged down with work, and must focus her next months on reorganizing a pitch for a Singapore investor for their micro-loans project for disadvantaged Southeast Asian women.   Coinciding at a wedding, Asha convinces Ravi to pretend that that they are dating at various weddings throughout the summer to ease the pressure from everyone to find someone. Asha and Ravi slowly become mutually interested, as they little by little get to know each other.   Asha and her sister Priya are out walking, discussing Priya's American fiancé Nick's going overboard with trying to immerse himself in Indian culture. Suddenly Ravi and his friend Yoshi stop their van to say hi.   Out with her boss James seeking donors, Asha learns that Ravi is secretly a wealthy, DJ called DJ Spellbound. She and Ravi step out to talk, and he further confides in her. He had been traveling over ten years DJing, but had decided to return to New Jersey to regroup. They are about to kiss when Yoshi radically alters the set, so Ravi has to save it.   The next day, Asha is talking with Priya and Nick about Ravi. He mistrusts his job as a DJ and thinks they should investigate him. Priya says she should throw caution to the wind as she's obviously interested. Changing the subject, Priya suggests Nick not try so hard, as he is a neurosurgeon.   After a wedding, Asha and Ravi take Mexican takeout to his little-used apartment and he details some of his philantropic endeavors. They kiss, and she soon falls asleep, exhausted. In the morning she apologises for sleeping on him, and they agree to keep their mutual interest secret.   Ravi encourages Asha about her pitch. It's so successful the Singapore group offers ten million more, a private organization Red Star Standard gives another large amount and she is offered a London executive promotion in their South Asian division.   Suneeta mistakes Asha's text to Priya about her 'big news' as news of her engagement to Ravi. The families plan a surprise lunch, during which Asha confesses their deception and Ravi admits that he dropped out of MIT and has no intention of getting a more socially acceptable career. He also admits to paying for catering orders from his father's restaurant in the name of his financial trust, Red Star. The funding for the company came mostly from Facebook stock he received for DJing.  Enraged, Asha ends their relationship because of Ravi's dishonesty. She no longer trusts him, and Ravi declaring that he has loved her since the day they met doesn't dissuade her from walking away and blocking him.   Later, Ravi argues with his parents about their disappointment in him. They resent the loss of years between them, although he points out that he is here now. Ravi announces that he and Yoshi are booked to go on a new DJing tour.   Finding it difficult to wrap her head around the idea of leaving her family for London, James encourages her as he'd left Jamaica for England years ago. Her dad comes to work, also encouraging her to go.    Priya gets cold feet just before her wedding. Asha encourages her, realizing in turn that she truly loves Ravi. She goes to his family's restaurant, sees him with another woman, and gives a speech about what a great guy he is. Priya and Nick marry and introduce DJ Spellbound at the reception. Ravi and his parents reconcile, he admits his job to the community, and gets back together with Asha.