Theodore Finch and Violet Markey are two teenagers who live unhappily in a small Indiana town. She is quietly dealing with survivor's guilt after the death of her sister Eleanor and he is a loner, called a freak by other students.   Finch and Violet meet on the bridge where Eleanor died in a car crash nine months earlier. Violet survived the crash, and has not been in a car since. She finds herself standing on the edge of the bridge on what would have been Eleanor's nineteenth birthday. Finch, out for a run, sees Violet perched on the edge looking in and climbs up next to her, talking her down from a possible suicide.  Finch begins a partnership with an initially reluctant Violet for a school project that requires the students to explore Indiana together. He looks her up on Facebook, researches her sister's car accident, reads through Violet's old writing, and chats with her online. Finch and Violet travel around Indiana to see sites chosen by him for the project.   Violet refuses to travel by car, so they bike to the highest point in Indiana. However, to visit a miniature roller coaster too far away to bike to, she agrees to get in Finch's car. Violet returns to writing, for the first time since Eleanor's death. He helps her talk about her sister, which no one else had managed to do. Violet slowly begins to heal and they fall in love.  Violet notices Finch's occasionally strange behavior. He sometimes disappears for days. One day, while they are swimming at the Blue Hole, Finch disappears under the water. By the time he resurfaces, Violet is distraught and forces him to tell her more about himself, threatening to leave if he doesn't. Finch reveals that he had been physically abused by his father, who sometimes got into "dark moods."  On one occasion, Finch and Violet stay out all night by accident, upsetting Violet's parents. At school that day, he loses his temper on Violet's ex-boyfriend after being called "freak." The two boys fight, and Finch leaves in his car. Violet, who broke up the fight, ends up in the principal's office with Finch's closest friend, Charlie, who talks to her about him.  Finch attends a support group session, earlier recommended by the school guidance counselor, but nothing fruitful comes of it, partly because he cannot describe his problems. He visits the bar where his sister Kate works and prompts her to speculate on why their father was abusive, and whether he could have been helped. Upset, Kate dismisses the topic, saying she doesn't care, and that their father is someone else's problem now. Disappointed, Finch leaves for their house, where Violet is waiting. As she questions him about the post-it notes put up everywhere, he alludes to his episodes of "dark moods" when he fails to "stay awake." Finally, convinced he is beyond help, shouts at her to leave.  Finch disappears again. As suggested by her father, Violet checks places they had visited together and drives to the Blue Hole. There, she finds Finch's clothes and phone, and correctly infers that he has drowned himself. Some time later, she attends his funeral.  While healing from Finch's suicide, Violet finds the map they used to travel around Indiana and notices the last location they were supposed to visit together marked in red. It's the Travelers' Prayers Chapel, a resting place for travelers and a place of healing for mourners. She finds his signature in the guest book.