In Venice, Los Angeles, private investigator Steve Ford gets his assistant John to locate a young woman, Nola, that he was hired to find, only for Ford to have sex with her. This results in him being chased by her brothers, who had hired him. He hides at his friend Tino's pizza place, and in return, agrees to steal back Tino's stolen car from a gang leader named Spyder. He disguises himself as a pizza man to get into Spyder's house, and barely gets the car out alive.  Ford juggles time with his beloved dog, his sister-in-law Katey and her daughter, and his best friend Dave Phillips, who is going through a divorce. He also has a new job from real estate salesman Lew the Jew, regarding lewd graffiti art on his buildings in exchange for his childhood home, which Lew had bought. Spyder's clients robs Katey's home, taking the dog too. Ford asks only for the dog back; Spyder says he will return the dog in exchange for a couple thousand dollars to pay for the damage Ford caused his home with the earlier car theft fiasco.  Ford sends John to stake out the mysterious graffiti artist. John runs into Nola, forming a romance. After getting the cash from Yuri, a loan shark, Ford pays Spyder, only for Spyder to inform him that his ex-girlfriend Lupe stole the dog along with Spyder's cocaine. Spyder makes a deal with Ford, asking him to get the cocaine back; in exchange, he will return the money Ford paid him for the dog. After tracking Lupe to a motel, Ford breaks into her room but is subdued by a transvestite before escaping. Ford and John uncover the graffiti artist's identity and find out he was hired by rivals of Lew.  Ford recruits Phillips to confront Lew's rivals and close Lew's case. They learn that Lupe had sold the cocaine to a gang led by Prince, and infiltrate his club to steal it back. Fearing their exchange is a set-up, Ford and Phillips come armed and prepared to Spyder's house. After being caught in a standoff, Spyder follows through on the deal with little fanfare, parting with Ford on good terms.  After receiving his childhood house from Lew, Ford gives it to his sister and niece. Unfortunately, John is kidnapped by Prince, who is looking for revenge on Ford. When they learn where Ford is, they head out for him, leaving John tied up.