God narrates the tale of Craig and Trevor, two straight, womanizing, misogynistic business salesmen who are, unbeknownst to them, identical twins separated at birth by their parents. When their companies undergo a merger, they finally meet. Initially competitive with one another, they realize that they are brothers when they notice each other's matching necklace pendants and learn each other's birthdays. In each other, they finally find a kindred spirit, but dissatisfied with their experiences growing up, they hatch a plan to get their parents back together to become a "real family". They each disguise themselves as one another and visit their other parent: Craig visits Evelyn, their shut-in and eccentric mother whose vagina had fallen off and died, and Trevor visits Harrison, their newly out gay father, who keeps two humanoid genetic mutants called "sewer boys" in a cage in his home. Both parents discuss their respective issues to their sons, to the boys' horror.  Disgusted, but adamant to complete their plan, the boys trick Evelyn and Harrison into having dinner together, who both accept due to their deep loneliness. Craig and Trevor's schemes cause them to miss work, and after insulting their boss, Gloria, she fires them. At the restaurant, Evelyn and Harrison realize that their sons have met and what they are trying to do. Nevertheless, they have sex in the restaurant, to the boys' delight, but leave them crushed when they tell them they have no intention of getting married again.   The failure causes a rift between the two boys and they fall into a depression to the point that Evelyn and Harrison kidnap them both to Harrison's home to try to cheer them up. However, the sewer boys get loose and flee back to the sewers. Harrison chases after them down the sewer, and Evelyn realizes that she wants more out of life and jumps in after him, as do the boys. Searching together, they all realize that they are a true family. Seeing the sewer boys about to be exterminated by a sewage worker, Evelyn reveals that she saved her dead vagina and nursed it back to health in her hand bag, throwing it at the worker and saving the sewer boys. Harrison realizes that he must let the sewer boys go in order to spend time with his true family.  Some time later, the family all move in together into an apartment, where Craig and Trevor share a room and bed and discover their intense sexual attraction to each other. They later get married in a ceremony officiated by God, which is interrupted by protestors and religious conservatives, decrying the union of two gay identical twins. God sternly lectures the protestors for their hatefulness and declares that Craig and Trevor's union will be added into the newest edition of his best seller, The Bible. They all celebrate the union and the revelation that God is gay.