In 1989, 10-year-old Aaliyah Dana Haughton makes her debut TV appearance on Star Search performing a rendition of "My Funny Valentine". Aaliyah's mother Diane Haughton once aspired to pursue her own career in singing, but is now willing to do anything to help her daughter's take off. Aaliyah's uncle Barry Hankerson is a record producer and the founder and owner of record label Blackground Records. After losing Star Search, Hankerson's ex-wife, Gladys Knight requests to perform with Aaliyah during a five-night stint in Las Vegas. In 1991, Aaliyah is informed by her uncle that she has been offered a record deal with Blackground Records and a signing with Jive Records.  Aaliyah's Uncle Barry approaches one of his biggest clients, R. Kelly to write and produce for his niece. Though disinterested at first, Kelly agrees to write and produce Aaliyah's album after hearing her sing  "Save the Best for Last". Following the release of her debut single "Back & Forth" in May, 1994, Aaliyah becomes a teen success, with "Age Ain't Nothing But A Number" hitting number one, but speculations about her and Kelly dating begin to spread, and although Aaliyah continues to deny any status between the friendship with him. But It is later revealed that the two had illegally married with Aaliyah lying about her age. Aaliyah's angry parents swear to have the marriage annulled by ending their relationship, and Aaliyah's father Michael threatens to have Kelly charged and arrested with statutory rape otherwise, leaving Aaliyah heartbroken and depressed. She later begins working on her second album with Timbaland and Missy Elliott, when her heart is crushed once again upon discovering through the news that Kelly is now married to his backing dancer, Andrea Lee.  Aaliyah's second album One in a Million, featuring the single "Got to Give It Up", is released in 1996, which goes double platinum in the US, making Aaliyah one of the biggest names in music, and recurring her title as The Princess of R&B. The following year, she records "Journey to the Past", the theme song to the film Anastasia, which she performs at the Oscars. She is later offered a role as Trish O'Day in the film Romeo Must Die, co-starring Jet Li. Meanwhile, Aaliyah's mother becomes concerned for her daughter's personal life, and tries to convince her to start dating, but Aaliyah is still disheartened from her separation from Kelly. Aaliyah attends the Hollywood premiere of Romeo Must Die, where she states her next aspired role lies with the upcoming film Queen of the Damned, an adaptation of one of her favorite books.  Following her movie success, Aaliyah moves to New York City where she meets Damon Dash, and the two fall in love. A year later, Aaliyah is set to travel via plane to The Bahamas to shoot a music video for "Rock the Boat", from her third (and final) album, Aaliyah. Damon sees Aaliyah to her limo, the two share a final kiss goodbye, and promise each other, that upon her return, they'll start taking their relationship more seriously, and prioritizing each other over their careers. As the limo drives away, Aaliyah waves goodbye and blows a kiss to Damon, who mouths "I love you", to which she mouths in response, "I love you too". The film ends with texts stating: "On August 25, 2001, after shooting the 'Rock the Boat' music video in the Bahamas, Aaliyah and eight others were killed when their plane crashed shortly after takeoff. She was twenty-two when she died. Her music and legacy will remain in our hearts forever".