A general contractor named Charles Humes is sentenced to death after killing his wife and two daughters with a hammer in Amityville, New York. The day before his execution, Charles meets with Father Benna. Charles confides in Benna that he committed the familicide due to being possessed by demons that he claims reside within lumber that he took from 112 Ocean Avenue, a local house that was haunted until an exorcism was performed on it by Benna's brother, Father Jonas. Jonas died during the exorcism, and his death still haunts Benna. Charles added the tainted wood to his own home, as well as various other properties, which he gives a list of to Benna. One of the houses that Charles worked on is inhabited by Amy Dukane and her abusive alcoholic father, Jeremy. Jeremy is widowed due to his wife, Bonnie, dying in a drunk driving crash that was caused by Jeremy.  Amy and Benna both start being terrorized by a demon, which disembowels a burglar before infusing Amy with an amalgamation of lesser demons called Legion. While Amy is out for a walk in the woods, where she and the demon kill a photographer, Jeremy is visited by Benna. Jeremy is skeptical of Benna's claim that his house is haunted, until Amy torments him from afar with visions of Bonnie. Amy murders her boyfriend, Robby, while the house is being blessed by Benna. When Amy returns, she is weakened by the blessing, and tied to her bed by Benna and Jeremy. Amy assumes a hideous visage, plays mind games with Jeremy, and animates dolls that she uses to attack Benna. Benna fends off the toys, and begins performing an exorcism on Amy. Amy breaks free of her restraints, forces Jeremy out of the room, and summons the demon that had implanted her with Legion. The demon taunts Benna, who responds by drawing a cross on it with blood from a wound that he had been given by Amy. The bloody cross banishes the demon and Legion back to Hell, freeing Amy.  Amy and Jeremy reconcile, while Benna heads out to deal with all of the other properties that had 112 Ocean Avenue's cursed wood added to them by Charles.