Madea and Joe Simmons catch Jennifer, Manny, and Byron breaking into their house. The children, whose mother is deceased, are living with their grandmother Rose but have not seen her in four days.  Meanwhile, their aunt April, an alcoholic singer, lives with her abusive boyfriend Randy, who is married with children. Madea brings the kids to April, who does not want to be bothered. Meanwhile, Pastor Brian sends Sandino, a Colombian immigrant, to her house for work and a place to stay. April puts Sandino in her basement, instantly disliking him. While working around the house, Sandino surprises April by cleaning himself up. Randy eventually sees April with the kids and heckles Sandino while making advances at Jennifer.  Meanwhile, April's mother Rose dies from a brain aneurysm and is cremated. Devastated, April seeks comfort from Randy, who is sleeping and shrugs her off. Later, Sandino comforts April, who tells him about the last time she spoke with her mother.  Depressed, Jennifer goes to Madea wanting to know how to pray. Inexperienced with prayer, Madea attempts to instruct her.  Sandino and April eventually become good friends. Sandino fixes a ruined bedroom in her house. This makes Manny and Byron happy, but upsets Jennifer, who feels April does not want them there. While on a date, Sandino tells April he does not understand why she is with Randy. One Sunday morning, Sandino knocks on April's bedroom door to get her ready for church, but Randy threatens to kill him if he continues to spend time with April.  The next night, Manny needs his insulin shot and Jennifer goes to the kitchen to get it. As she prepares the shot, Randy attempts to rape her, but Sandino fights him off. April walks in on the fight, and Randy claims Jennifer offered him sex for money. April pretends to believe him and sends Randy to take a bath. When he is in the tub, April threatens to electrocute him with a plugged-in radio. Sandino tries to stop her, but April is enraged, revealing that she was sexually abused by her stepfather Lee, who then lied about it to her mother. This caused April to lose her faith in the people that cared about her. April became an alcoholic due to Lee lying to her mother for years over the abuse. This is why she chose to live a life without children and resenting Lee. She drops the radio into the water, giving Randy a electric shock. Randy jumps out just in time, and Sandino orders him to leave.  April goes to the nightclub for a drink and blames herself for not seeing the signs, just like her mother did not see them with her. Sandino tries to stop her from drinking while mentioning that Randy has moved out, but she pushes him away. She then asks Sandino if he is a child molester because of all the attention he gives the children. Sandino talks about his childhood as a child laborer and explains that he loves the children because he sees himself in them. Feeling hurt at her accusations, Sandino says farewell to the children and leaves.  April tells Jennifer about her bad experience as a child, and the two begin to connect. Jennifer says that April should recognize Sandino as a good man. Eventually, Sandino returns. April apologizes to him and admits that she loves him like a friend. Sandino says that April cannot love anyone until she learns to love herself. He is in love with April, but wants her to love him back the same way he loves her. He then kisses her.  Eventually, April and Sandino get married. April and Sandino then hold a block party for their reception. The new couple embrace and share a passionate kiss.