After separating from his wife, unemployed Danny Meyerowitz moves in with father Harold, a retired Bard College art professor and sculptor, and his fourth wife, Maureen, a pleasant if foggy hippy. Jean is his sister, and they have a younger half-brother, Matthew. Danny is close to his daughter, Eliza, a freshman film student at Bard. Eliza shows one of her sexually provocative films to the family, who try hard not to show their shock and instead compliment its energy and production value.  Some of Harold's work has been selected as part of a faculty group show at Bard, but he refuses to be part of a group show. Danny and Harold attend the MoMA retrospective of a friend and contemporary of Harold's, the successful L.J. Shapiro. There neither father nor son feels comfortable; Harold feels the art world has forgotten him and chooses to literally run away down the street. Danny meets Shapiro's daughter, his childhood friend Loretta, but is forced to leave to chase after Harold.  Harold's younger son Matthew, a successful financial advisor to rock stars on the west coast in Los Angeles, is in New York on business and meets Harold for lunch with an accountant friend. They try to convince Harold to sell his Manhattan home and its sculpture, as he can barely pay the townhouse's utilities. Harold tells them the decision to sell the house is a private family decision and stalks out. At a third restaurant he criticizes the prices, but orders lavishly once Matthew says he'll pay.  During lunch at the restaurant, Harold feels offended by the arrogant manner of another patron, and gets Matthew to intervene in scene involving running, chasing and embarrassment. They bond slightly in self-righteous indignation. That evening they pay a visit to Matthew's mother, Harold's second wife Julia, who has since married a man named Cody, a wealthy philistine. She tells them she is sorry she was not a better mother to Harold's three children; her directness makes them very uncomfortable and they are anxious to leave. Matthew resents Harold for preferring a life of art over money. "I beat you!", he screams at his father's departing Volvo.  Harold is diagnosed with a chronic subdural hematoma. He enters the hospital, where as the days pass his children learn to manage his care themselves, after first leaning on Harold's doctor and nurse to do it. Outside the hospital Jean tells her brothers the family friend who happens to be visiting Harold at the moment exposed himself and masturbated in front of her when she was a child. Upset with the revelation, Matthew and Danny decide to beat the friend until they learn the friend is an elderly man who requires nurse care. Instead, they damage the friend's car with mounting exhilaration, although Jean expresses her disappointment in her brother and half-brother, having just wanted someone to listen to her instead of make decisions without her consent.  At Bard to represent their father at the faculty group show, Matthew and Danny get into a fight, of sorts, on the quad; later, bloody and crying, each makes drug-addled remarks in Harold's place, mostly about themselves, and Matthew ends up breaking down emotionally during his speech. As Harold convalesces at Maureen's place in the country (the townhouse was sold, despite Matthew's change of heart), it dawns on Matthew and Harold that Harold's favorite sculpture "Matthew", a lifelong object of resentment for Danny and Jean, was likely based on his feelings for young Danny.  Danny, who up to now has been solicitous toward his father, refuses to care for him while Maureen is away and accepts his brother's offer of a trip to California, but he forgives him for his past failures as a dad. On the way to the flight he meets Loretta, now single, and she suggests they go together to the screening of a film Eliza has made. In the basement of The Whitney, Eliza uncovers her grandfather's sculpture, long believed to have been lost. The slow pullback of the final camera shot shows how the Whitney Museum warehouse is full of "un-harolded" works by obscure artists.