After World War II ends, Holocaust perpetrator Adolf Eichmann disappears; other leaders of Nazi Germany take their own lives to avoid facing trials for war crimes. In 1954, Mossad agent Peter Malkin mistakenly kills the wrong person while hunting a Nazi war criminal in Austria, damaging his reputation.  In Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1960, Sylvia Hermann begins courting the son of Adolf Eichmann, Klaus. At dinner with her German-Jewish father, Lothar, Klaus openly speaks negatively about Jews and claims his father died in the war. Lothar grows suspicious and passes his name along to Mossad in Tel Aviv, Israel. Field agent Zvi Aharoni is dispatched in Buenos Aires to begin reconnaissance. Klaus takes Sylvia to a meeting, which turns out to be a Nazi revival led by Carlos Fuldner, which Eichmann also attends. Sylvia abruptly leaves after the guests erupt in a Sieg Heil chant.  Now working in coordination with Mossad, Sylvia meets the Eichmann family at their home under the guise of reconciling with Klaus. An argument between her and Klaus causes Eichmann (living under the name Ricardo Klement and claiming to be Klaus's uncle) to intervene; Klaus accidentally refers to him as his father and Eichmann is subsequently photographed by a Mossad agent. Eichmann notices the operative taking his photo and sketches him.  The Mossad team uses the evidence from the meeting to confirm Eichmann's identity and plan his capture – they intend to disguise themselves as an El Al air crew and fly him out while he is sedated. Peter and his ex-girlfriend Hanna, a doctor, are brought on to the team with her role to keep Eichmann sedated during their travels. The team coordinates and captures Eichmann outside of his home. While his family and friends try to discern if his disappearance is due to someone discovering his true identity, Eichmann admits his identity to his captors. Meanwhile, the agents learn their return flight has been delayed by ten days. Furthermore, they are informed the airline will not agree to transport Eichmann unless he signs an affidavit stating he will willingly go to Israel; he refuses to sign because he does not believe he will get a fair trial. The team's interrogator is not able to get through to Eichmann and tensions rise among the team; some wish to outright kill Eichmann. Peter eventually obtains the signature after sharing his personal story of the loss of his sister Fruma and her three young children to the Holocaust and listening to Eichmann's story about being ignorant of the actual killing of the Jews, claiming his job was focused exclusively on logistics and he was just "following orders".  During the plane's delay and while they await Eichmann's capitulation, Klaus and the police increasingly investigate Eichmann's disappearance, distributing the sketch of the operative to the public. After using US dollars instead of Argentine pesos, one of the Mossad's local contacts is captured and tortured until she reveals the location of the safehouse. As the Mossad team prepare to leave, Eichmann drops his polite façade and tells Peter a horrific story of watching 5,000 Jews murdered in a pit by the Einsatzgruppen, cruelly wondering aloud if one of them (a woman who had begged Eichmann to save her infant) was Peter's sister.  With the Nazis and police bearing down on them, the rest of the team is forced to drastically alter their escape plan, resulting in two operatives having to be left behind. The police also confiscate the  plane's landing permits, grounding it. Peter hand-delivers a copy of the permit to air traffic control and, seeing the police closing in, orders the  plane to take off without him.  In Israel, all the operatives reunite at Eichmann's trial which was televised globally. In the epilogue, it is revealed that Eichmann is found guilty and hanged in 1962. Testimony in the trial from survivors of the Nazi death machine was the first time the world heard directly from them.  Peter has a successful career and long life, dying in 2005.