Father Jonathan Keene goes to a small fishing village a week before Christmas to shut down a dying parish.  When he gets there, he finds that the congregation has dropped from 150 to 20 under Simeon's leadership.  While Simeon takes Father Keene around the parish, Keene sees a young woman he had seen at the bus station when he first arrived in the village. He returns her glove he accidentally picked up when they bumped into each other. The woman introduces herself as Marjorie Worthington but quickly excuses herself to return to having a rather animated discussion with her boyfriend.  Later, at a rehearsal for the Nativity play, Simeon tells the parishioners that Father Keene is there to take over the parish and leaves, turning over the production to Keene. Keene asks Marjorie to play Mary as she is the only woman he has seen in town that is under 60, but she turns the role down saying that she 'isn't Mary.'  As an atheist, she views a virgin birth as being preposterous.  Keene counters that she believes in evolution, that billions of years ago, a single cell developed into a fish, then an amphibian, then dinosaurs, mammals, apes, and finally humans--all by pure chance. He asks her with that belief, what is so hard to imagine that a teenage girl could get pregnant and bear the Son of God?  Marjorie tells Keene that she'll think about it.  A few days later, a woman goes into the Confessional and tells Father Keene that she overheard Marjorie and her boyfriend Seth talking and Marjorie is pregnant with Seth's baby even though he has a wife in New York. Soon afterwards, Marjorie arrives and tells Keene that she decided to take the role of Mary in the play.  Keene responds by rejecting Marjorie and shaming her for her promiscuous life. She definitely 'isn't Mary.' Marjorie tells him that she found out Seth was married and that she has ended their relationship.  On Christmas Eve, Simeon tells Keene that he wants to marry Marjorie and is quitting the priesthood. Only a couple of people turn up to perform the Nativity and they tell Keene that there's no point in doing it and leave to go to Mrs. Worthington's Christmas party like everybody else.  Keene decides to go as well.  At the party, Keene sees Seth flirting with another woman, and gets into a fight with him, ending up with a deep gash on his cheek. He goes outside and meets Marjorie who tends to his wound.  Keene opens up to Marjorie telling her that everywhere he goes he sees a spirit of a little girl. The girl, he explains, is the daughter he forced his girlfriend to abort when they were at university, and that he never wanted to be a priest, he just did it out of guilt. Simeon observes the conversation and realizes that Keene loves Marjorie.  Later, Marjorie goes into labor after trying to run away. Father Keene hears about this and runs to visit her in the hospital. As he looks at Marjorie's premature newborn baby through the window, Noëlle, the spirit of his daughter, forgives him.  Simeon meanwhile, who went to the church to say goodbye to Father Keene, is elated to see that the church is full.  Four years later, Simeon is directing the church Nativity. Grace, Marjorie's daughter, whom Keene presumably adopted after marrying her mother, plays the part of the angel announcing to the shepherds.  Then she runs to Keene and hugs him.  Simeon is still the pastor of the now thriving church.