Mike Regan is a self-made aviation tycoon who lives in a state-of-the-art smart house full of modern technology with his wife Rose and 17-year-old daughter Kaitlyn. Mike's company is developing an app called "Omni Jet" which will increase business while the company raises much-needed financial capital with a stock offering. However, it requires U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approval.  At the company, Mike meets Ed Porter, a 28-year-old information technology (I.T.) consultant and calls him to fix his home's Wi-Fi signal, which his daughter complains is slow. The password is revealed here to be "ReganHouse1" which lacks Password strength, an indicator of Regan's lack of security.  Porter also upgrades the Global Positioning System (GPS) in Mike's car and claims that he also worked at the National Security Agency (NSA) and had taken part in a military exercise in Kandahar.  Porter meets Kaitlyn and starts a relationship with her through social media, but Mike fires him after Kaitlyn invites Porter into the house; this ends his promising career at the company. Devastated, Porter begins to remotely access Mike's private data and his house as he covertly monitors them through the security cameras and devices all over the smart house. He also spies on Kaitlyn and secretly records her masturbating in the shower.  Porter sends fake emails to Mike's clients and the SEC, threatening the company's survival. He also takes full control of the house's technology, which leaves the family terrified. He uses a spoof email to send Rose fake mammogram results, saying that she tested positive for breast cancer. Rose is extremely distressed, but her test results were actually negative according to her attending physician. After Mike becomes aware that Porter has done this, he attacks Porter and threatens to kill him if he does not stay away from his family.  Porter then uploads the video of Kaitlyn masturbating online, immediately catching the attention of her schoolmates; she is mortified and blames her father for installing the technology in their house. Angered, Mike drives to see Porter but he is also being monitored by Porter, who mockingly telephones him through the car navigation system and sends him the video. Porter then remotely deactivates the car's brake system, hitting a nearby stalled truck and destroying the car.  Mike requests help from Henrik, an I.T. expert, who says that Mike must destroy all the smart technology in the house and delete his emails, bank accounts and computer files. Henrik explains that Porter's real name is Richard Edward Portman and that his father committed suicide when Porter was six years old. He also reveals that he never worked for the NSA, as he claimed, and the photograph of him with soldiers in Kandahar was fake. To allow Mike to obtain evidence from Porter's apartment, Henrik creates a diversion by stealing the phone of a waitress at a coffee shop with whom Porter's obsessed and texting Porter, telling him to come to the coffee shop. While Porter is gone, Mike manages to get in his apartment and steal several thumb drives containing evidence, escaping just as Porter returns to his apartment after realising it was a diversion. Porter realises the masked man that he saw in his apartment was Mike, so he frames him for assault, prompting the police to arrest Mike when trying to provide the evidence from the thumb drives to the police.  After being released, Mike returns home to find Kaitlyn and Rose tied and gagged by Porter, who holds them at gunpoint. Shortly afterwards a struggle ensues; Porter shoots a window and Mike punches Porter, who hits his head and lies dying as Mike holds the gun to his chest, but Rose begs Mike not to kill him.  Some time later, the company's employees applaud Mike and his family for successfully developing the app and their house is restored.