In 1961, 11 year-old Beverly "Bev" Donofrio rides with her father Wallingford, Connecticut police officer Leonard. She asks for a bra for Christmas to get the attention of a boy, but he tells her she is too young and to focus on books.  In 1965 intelligent but naïve Bev's dream is to go to college in New York City to become a writer. Joining her friends Fay and Tina at a party, Fay's older boyfriend Bobby is being deployed to Vietnam while Bev gives a love letter to popular boy, Sky. He reads it aloud so she flees to the bathroom where she's consoled by Ray, a stranger who defends her honor by fighting with Sky.  Bev and Ray with Fay and Bobby, flee the party and go to a lookout where Bobby and Fay have sex. Bev is overcome by Ray's kindness so they do too. On duty, Leonard catches and takes them to the police station and Bev claims that they only kissed.  Bev tells Ray she's pregnant and initially turns down his offer to get married but later agrees to a hasty wedding to placate her parents. At the reception everyone is avoiding Bev, so Fay publicly announces she is also pregnant. As Fay's father wanted her to put the baby up for adoption, she and Bobby will get married instead.  The girls celebrate that they will be mothers together but lament missing out on their childhood, the prom, and an education. Bev has a son, Jason (upsetting her, as she wanted a girl) while Fay has daughter Amelia. Bev continues studying. When Jason is three her interview for a college scholarship goes badly as she has to take Jason along. Although the interviewer praises her writing, he fears she is too distracted.  Later, Fay reveals that she and Bobby are getting divorced as he met someone else. Bev tells her she's not sure if she loves Jason because his birth has cost her so much. When he almost drowns in Fay's pool, Bev vows to be more attentive.  At Jason's seventh birthday party, several people from Bev's high school come; Tina is engaged and going to NYU and Tommy, who had a crush on Bev, just graduated from Berkeley. He suggests she move her family to California to get her degree as the state offers financial aid. Although initially agreeing, Ray confesses to being a heroin addict and spending their savings on drugs. Bev helps him detox but he sneaks out to get more drugs. Saying he can't quit, she tells him to leave. Ray agrees but young Jason chases after him, telling Bev he hates her.  Two years later, Bev and Fay help Lizard (Ray's friend) to dry weed in Bev's oven to get money to study in California. Jason, still bitter, tells Grandpa Leonard who arrests the mothers. Fay's brother bails them out but only if Fay and Amelia move with him and cut off contact with Bev, so she blames Jason.  In 1986, Bev and Jason are driving to see Ray. She has a college degree and needs Ray to sign a waiver to publish her memoir. On the way, Jason tells her he wants to transfer from NYU to Indiana University but Bev refuses as he must get the education she couldn't.  Jason calls his now-girlfriend Amelia with the bad news, who is dejected but not angry. Arriving at Ray's trailer, Bev explains why they are there. When his wife Shirley demands $100,000, Bev storms out. Jason follows, calling her selfish for only caring about her book when he finally got to see his father again. He accuses her of being a bad mother and she stomps off. Ray tells Jason leaving was the best thing he could have done for him and that is why he turned out so well. He sneaks the signed papers to him.  Jason finds Bev who insists she was a great mother who sacrificed everything for him. He reveals he is transferring to be with Amelia and apologizes for ruining her life. Bev softens, telling him she is proud and that he is the best thing in her life. Feeling responsible for her mistakes and poor choices she gives him her car to drive to Indiana.  Beverly calls her father Leonard for a ride. Complaining that Jason blames her for everything wrong in his life, she realizes that she herself has done the same to him. Together, they sing a song from her childhood as they drive away.