Brad and Kate are an unmarried upscale San Francisco couple who have been together three years. Because each of them comes from divorced parents and overall dysfunctional families, they are reluctant to marry and have children. To avoid their families at Christmas, Brad and Kate plan a vacation to Fiji, falsely telling their parents they are traveling abroad to do charity work. When a fog bank grounds outgoing flights, Brad and Kate are randomly interviewed by a television reporter at the airport about their now-cancelled plans. The resulting broadcast puts their families on notice they are stuck at home for the holidays; and, forces Brad and Kate to visit their parents' homes in one day.  They first visit Brad's father; then, Kate's mother; then, Brad's mother, each house with various siblings, extended relatives, and significant others.  As Brad counts down the minutes to freedom, Kate studies their families' lives and takes a pregnancy test on a whim, which is negative. They keep discovering new secrets about each other they had previously been too embarrassed to share, such as Brad's real name being "Orlando", Kate's being ostracized by her peers throughout her childhood, and how Brad's mom's new boyfriend is his childhood best friend. As they continue to learn about the things they hide from each other, their relationship strains.  Kate realizes she wants a deeper commitment with Brad, the prospect of which frightens him when she mentions it. When they finally reach Kate's father's house, she asks Brad to let her go in alone. Inside, she learns how her father has mended his relationships with his ex-wife and family for sake being able to celebrate Christmas as a family. Meanwhile, Brad returns to his father's and they have a quiet talk alone. Brad realizes he fears ending up bitter and alone like his father, though the two reconcile before he leaves. Returning to Kate, they discuss marriage and children before embarking to Fiji.   On New Year's Day a year later, Brad and Kate welcome their first child, a daughter, after spending nine months hiding the news from their families. As theirs is the first baby of the New Year's, a news crew comes to congratulate them— once again revealing them, and their new baby, to their families.