Catherine is in the midst of a breakup with her boyfriend, James, who is leaving her for another woman. Catherine's father, a renowned artist, has recently died by suicide after a history of depression. Knowing of Catherine's grief, her lifelong friend Virginia invites her to spend a week at her parents' cabin. The visit is intercut with scenes of Catherine's stay the previous year, when Virginia had been the one needing emotional support, and was disappointed when Catherine brought along James, whom Virginia hated, and drew focus away from their friendship.  Catherine is upset when Virginia invites Rich, a neighbor, to join them at the cabin. Virginia criticizes Catherine for having had unhealthy and codependent relationships with James and her father, and for choosing to live as her father's administrative support instead of attempting her own artistic career. Catherine derides Virginia for her aimless, unemployed lifestyle. Despite their arguments, Virginia assures Catherine that she truly cares about her and wants to see her heal. Catherine begins drawing a portrait of Virginia as the two spend their evenings discussing their personal relationships.  Catherine's mental health gradually deteriorates during her stay. She has a strange encounter with a neighbor who warns her that Virginia's parents are bad people; she has difficulty sleeping and eating, and is increasingly paranoid over Rich's presence, believing he is driving a wedge between her and Virginia. As Virginia becomes concerned over Catherine's well-being, Catherine worries that they think she is crazy. After Catherine has a disturbed reaction to Rich's observation that she had been talking to herself the night before, Virginia remarks that she is finally seeing Catherine for the first time: she had initially thought Catherine was perfect, but now realizes that she surrounded herself with men to protect her weak and fragile sense of self. Catherine muses that she feels she no longer exists, and that the only two people who cared about her are gone. Virginia insists that she also cares about Catherine, which Catherine casually denies.  After Virginia and Rich take Catherine out on a canoe ride, Virginia listens in as Catherine describes the event to someone on the phone, which is disconnected. She assumes Catherine is speaking with James, but it is left ambiguous as to whether an unstable Catherine is envisioning herself conversing with her late father. That night, Virginia throws a party for some neighbors, and Catherine imagines increasingly hostile interactions with the guests, including a confrontation over her father's embezzlement, ending with her screaming as all of the guests grab at her. After coming to her senses, she flees. She begins to lose awareness of time and her surroundings, and after a dinner where Rich mocks her mental struggles and callously suggests she use her recent grief to promote a new art career, she calmly and witheringly insults him, blaming him for being an embodiment of all the worst things in the world.   The next morning, Catherine confronts Rich and blames him for getting in the way of what should have been her week with Virginia, but he remains unsympathetic, saying he hates her because he considers her a spoiled brat. Catherine ineffectually attempts to strangle him, then suffers a nervous breakdown, leading a stunned Virginia to realize that Catherine's issues are greater than her own the previous year, and she is far beyond her help. As Catherine leaves the cabin to return home, Virginia remembers the previous year when Catherine had apologized to her for not being a better friend, and they jokingly promise that next year, Catherine can be the one needing help and Virginia can disappoint her. A guilt-ridden Virginia later discovers Catherine's finished portrait, leading her to break down in sobs as Catherine laughs manically elsewhere.