College friends Amy, Brock, Jesse, Stephanie, Kevin, and Kelly vacation in Vilnius, Lithuania. While exploring a strange club, Amy finds an intriguing series of portraits belonging to the Cuzas family. Brock meets a sexually aggressive tattoo artist’s apprentice named Uta and convinces Amy to accompany him to the parlor so that she can get a tattoo to commemorate her trip.  Uta seduces Brock in the parlor’s basement, which is actually a dungeon, and ultimately takes Brock prisoner. Upstairs, Amy connects with The Artist while discussing meanings behind tattoo art. The Artist then drugs Amy’s drink and takes her prisoner. Restrained on a slab in the dungeon, Amy is forced to watch as The Artist flays Brock’s back and removes his skin for use as a canvas.  The other four friends realize that Brock and Amy are missing the following day and begin searching local tattoo parlors. Jesse assaults a gang of street youths when one of them makes a presumably rude comment. The group finds The Artist’s parlor, but he tells them that Brock and Amy left the night before. Kevin, Stephanie, and Kelly insist on contacting police and continuing their search. Convinced that their friends are fine, Jesse refuses to spend any more time on the endeavor and goes off on his own to a strip club.  Kelly eventually deduces that a tattoo she saw hanging on the parlor’s wall is the same one that was on Brock’s arm. She, Stephanie, and Kevin return to the parlor and are taken prisoner. Because her skin is impure due to a birthmark, The Artist gives Stephanie to Uta to practice flaying. The Artist then instructs Uta to leave Amy unharmed before taking his leave. Uta botches the flaying and kills Stephanie. Kevin is tortured, although his final fate is left in the air.  The Artist arrives at a wealthy benefactor’s mansion and delivers a portrait painted on human skin. Kelly escapes the parlor and runs for help, but ends up chased by the street youths Jesse assaulted earlier. The gang corners Kelly in an alleyway and prepares to attack when The Artist arrives and shoots everybody, including Kelly.  Jesse brings a stripper named Zala to the tattoo parlor. Zala has her clit pierced by Uta and the two women end up fighting until Zala is captured and later tortured.  When Jesse discovers that Amy is The Artist’s captive, he tries to shut down The Artist’s operation. It is revealed that Jesse is part of the Cuzas line and his father insisted that he have a portrait of himself done on human skin as part of their family tradition. Jesse only meant for Brock to be murdered, but not his other friends.  Her brainwashing nearly complete, The Artist releases Amy. Amy kills both Uta and Jesse and takes up a position at The Artist’s side as his new apprentice.