Andy is a 41 year old virgin who lives with his "high school age" friends Seth, Sanjay, Jonah and Michael. He works part-time at a club as a failed standup comedian with his friend Blaqguy, who suffers from Benjamin Button's Disease. Seemingly oblivious to any attempts by women to sleep with him, he has remained a virgin and has not even masturbated, much to the chagrin of Blaqguy.   One night at the club, he meets Kim and seems to hit it off with her but she receives a promotion and leaves abruptly, leaving behind her false leg. Later that night over a poker game, his friends learn of Andy's lifelong virginity and attempt to help him lose it by various means, all of which fail spectacularly.   Andy later meets Sarah Marshall, who immediately takes a liking to him despite his awkward nature. After vomiting in his car, she attempts to sleep with him but he loses his confidence and flees. Confronted by Seth, Andy regains his confidence and returns to Sarah but discovers Blaqguy, now in his pubescent stage, sleeping with Sarah. A fight breaks out between them, which ends with Andy covered in feces. The next day, Sarah arrives at Andy's apartment fully pregnant (due to her being half Mexican), claiming that the child is Andy's. He denies it and she leaves him.  Seeking respite from his woes, Andy goes on vacation to Hawaii, where he reconnects with Kim, who is now manager at his hotel. Andy discovers that Sarah and her new boyfriend, Aldus Snow, are staying in the room adjacent to his. Once again denying the baby is his, Sarah and Aldus have loud sex in an attempt to get Andy jealous.   That night, Andy goes on a date with Kim and when they attempt to have sex, Sarah interrupts and a fight breaks out. Sarah and Kim both subsequently leave Andy. After a brief encounter with Mace Windu and Yoda, Andy learns that virginity allows him to live longer and gain control of the force but rejects it after learning his scrotum will inflate in size.   Andy reconciles with Kim after being struck by a car and they are married soon after. On their wedding night, they finally have sex but Andy's semen has backed up with such force that he ejects Kim through a window when he climaxes, subsequently flooding California and thwarting a missile attack by Kim Jong il.   A subplot involving Jonah, Michael and their friend McAnalovin' also occurs throughout the course of the movie. After being picked up by police officers Beat and Yo' Ass for using a false ID to acquire alcohol, McAnalovin' goes on a Grand Theft Auto IV-style adventure that unwittingly unleashes an army of Mexicans upon himself and the officers. Jonah becomes separated and is accused on being a pedophile after an encounter with Chris Hansen. The two eventually regroup and manage to drive to Hawaii in the car that strikes Andy but are both killed by the Mexicans. Michael, meanwhile, has fallen in with a group of lactose-intolerant vampires led by Edward Cullen.