Harper Moore is the assistant to Kirsten Stevens, a former journalist and now editor of an online sports journalism empire. Charlie Young is the assistant to high-strung venture capitalist Rick Otis. They work in the same building and meet one night when their bosses need dinner.  Harper has ordered dinner for Kirsten but has no cash to pay for it; Charlie, who was not able to order dinner for Rick, pays for it to give to Rick. When Harper tells him she will be fired if she does not return with food, Charlie allows her to take one of the meals.  The next day Harper reimburses Charlie for the food, and they talk about their jobs. Though Rick is abrasive, his connections would guarantee Charlie a promotion. Harper admires Kirsten's career and aspires to write sports journalism. Both assistants complain that they have no time for their personal lives.  Harper jokes that both of their bosses need to get laid, then reasons that if their bosses were dating each other, they would have less time to overwork their assistants. After his girlfriend Suze almost breaks up with him due to his lack of free time, Charlie agrees.  Initially, the two plan to orchestrate a "meet cute" by having Rick and Kirsten's elevator stalled, with the help of janitor Creepy Tim, however, their plot goes awry when they are joined by a delivery man suffering from claustrophobia who starts stripping and urinating. Charlie and Harper then arrange for the two to sit beside each other at a baseball game, bribing the operator of the kiss-cam to pressure them into kissing. After three attempts, Rick and Kirsten kiss. They begin dating, leaving Charlie time to spend with Suze, and Harper time to date.  However, things between Rick and Kirsten quickly become bumpy and Harper and Charlie realize they must work hard to keep their bosses together. They manipulate the two into staying together by secretly planning dates, leaving notes and gifts, and organizing a weekend getaway for them. When Charlie is ignored by Suze, he accompanies Harper to her best friend Becca's engagement party.  Returning from their vacation, Rick and Kirsten reveal they are now engaged. Harper and Charlie are thrilled, but Charlie learns that Rick proposed to Kirsten to aggravate his ex-wife Kiki, who he is still sleeping with. Harper discovers this when she overhears Rick having phone sex with Kiki. She confronts Charlie and is disappointed to learn that he knew about it and still wants Kirsten and Rick to get married.  Harper goes to Kirsten and explains that she and Charlie manipulated them into dating; Kirsten fires her and plans to go on with the wedding. Charlie, realizing he doesn't love Suze, breaks up with her and runs to the airport, where Rick and Kirsten are about to leave to elope. Charlie quits his job and tells Kirsten that Rick doesn't love her and doesn't know her at all. Kirsten realizes it is true and leaves Rick.  Harper goes through a crisis with her writing, but Becca encourages her to make progress. Rick asks for Charlie's help in reuniting with his ex-wife. Harper goes to her office to pick up her things. Kirsten tries to hire her back but Harper refuses, choosing to focus on her writing. Kirsten offers to edit her article.  As she is leaving, Harper sees Charlie, who has been called there by Kirsten. They realize that Kirsten is attempting to set them up. Charlie reveals that he now works as a temp, hoping to learn what he actually wants to do. Harper and Charlie kiss upon confessing that they like each other, despite having many reasons not to.  In a mid-credits scene, Creepy Tim watches the couple through security cameras.