In 2001, Michael Ausiello, a writer for TV Guide, is brought to a gay nightclub by his best friend in Manhattan. There, he meets photographer Kit Cowan, and the two instantly connect. As they begin dating, Michael struggles with his insecurities of not being attractive enough for Kit, previously being overweight. Kit reveals that he had an affair. They both admit their fears of being in a long-term relationship since neither of them had been in one before, but they decide to continue dating. During their first Christmas together, Kit gives Michael his own closet space at his apartment.    One year later, Kit gets an appendectomy. His parents, Bob and Marilyn, come to Manhattan, and Kit has yet to come out to them. Marilyn grows suspicious of Michael. After she incessantly interrogates him, Kit comes out to his parents and reveals that Michael is his boyfriend. While initially upset that Kit could not admit this to her, Marilyn is accepting and welcomes Michael. Michael and Kit continue their relationship and move into a townhouse together. During their second Christmas, Kit joins Michael in lying under the Christmas tree with him as Michael explains it was a childhood fantasy of his to do it every year with his partner.  In 2013, Michael and Kit develop complications in their relationship as their sex life deteriorates. Michael spends too much time with his company TVLine and becomes an alcoholic. He also suspects Kit is having an affair with his coworker, Sebastian. Their therapist believes they now resent each other, but they still love each other enough to not want to end it. He suggests that they separate to reassess their feelings. Kit moves out, but the two remain in their relationship. During their thirteenth Christmas, Kit begins showing signs of ill health.   In 2014, Kit is diagnosed with a rare form of stage-4 neuroendocrine cancer. Michael, still traumatized by his mother's death from cancer, moves Kit back in and the two reconcile. Michael supports Kit as he undergoes treatment. Kit's health worsens and is given six weeks left to live. Michael apologizes to Kit for not letting him know how beautiful he was due to his fears of being left for a more attractive man. Kit apologizes to Michael for having an affair with Sebastian. Kit proposes to Michael and they marry the next day. The two spend their last Christmas together, with Michael fantasizing himself and Kit growing old and lying under the Christmas tree together.  In 2015, Kit is taken to the hospital. As Kit nears death, Michael allows Sebastian to say goodbye to him. As Kit is dying, Michael fantasizes interviewing Kit as a departing actor whose character is being killed off a television show. Kit expresses gratitude for his "time on the show" and is looking forward to the future. Michael asks Kit what he should do, and Kit assures him that he will figure it out. Back in reality, Michael thanks Kit for giving him a family. After Kit's death, Michael continues to be a part of Bob and Marilyn's lives. Michael prepares to leave New York for Los Angeles. As he's nervous to start his new journey, he remembers how brave he was to begin his adventure with Kit.