Katie is a kindhearted seventeen-year-old waitress who lives in a hamlet in rural Arizona with her mother Tracey.  Tracey doesn't work and depends on Katie to keep up with bills.   To overcome poverty, escape her boring life, and fulfill her plan to move to San Francisco, Katie makes extra money having sex with truckers, including another kindhearted soul and older man, Bear.  Katie befriends and begins a relationship with local mechanic and ex-convict Bruno. When he discovers she is prostituting herself, Katie agrees to stop. But Katie has a reputation in town, and soon another man forces himself on Katie.  The man's daughter, Katie's coworker, comes upon the pair and later accuses Katie of being the seducer.  Katie is picked up by two of Bruno's coworkers under the guise of a ride home but is taken to a rural area where they beat and rape her. After his coworkers brag about having sex with her, Bruno, in a rage, assaults them, grievously wounding one.  Katie, bruised and despondent, returns to the restaurant, where Bear accuses Bruno of causing Katie's bruises. After a brief fight between the two men, Bruno drives Katie to another rural area where he blames her for having sex with his coworkers and ends their relationship.  He is later arrested.   Meanwhile, Tracey leaves town with a married neighbor and Katie's money, without paying the rent. Katie is forced to abandon the trailer she shared with her mother.  Back at work, another waitress accuses Katie of stealing money from the restaurant.  As grief, shock and despair wash across her face, Katie tells her boss the accusation is true.  She refuses the restaurant owner's apparent offer to let Katie make amends to keep her job.   As she walks out the door, Katie quietly warns the accusing waitress to "never do that again."  Outside the restaurant, Katie staggers across the parking lot, and falls to her knees in heaving sobs.  As the sobs taper off, a smile comes over her face, she picks herself up and shuffles out to the highway where she begins a new journey by holding her thumb out and hitchhiking down the road.