In the 1970s, Lillian Frank is a performer at a nightclub. Lillian tries to rouse the crowd with her torch song, "Lillie's Blues", with her daughter Billie accompanying her on vocals. The plot fails and Lillian is fired. A defeated Lillian lights a cigarette, but then accidentally falls asleep, starting a fire and causing the building to be evacuated. Due to her mother's actions, Billie is fostered.  Years later, in 1983, the adult Billie is a club dancer along with her foster-care friends Louise and Roxanne. They meet record producer Timothy Walker, who offers them a contract as backup singers and dancers to famous singer Sylk. Later at a nightclub hosted by Julian "Dice" Black, Sylk debuts "All My Life". Dice discovers that Billie is the real singer of the song, as a means to cover up Sylk's abysmal singing ability. Impressed, he wishes to produce her but Billie raises concerns about her contract with Timothy and he eventually agrees on the provision that Dice pays him $100,000.  Billie and Dice start working on songs, and ultimately sign with Guy Richardson of a major record label. With success in their hands, they go out for dinner and have passionate sex in his apartment. Billie's first major single, "Loverboy", is a success, and she performs at an awards ceremony, where she meets singer Rafael. Billie is threatened by Timothy on the debt that Dice failed to pay. Upset with how Dice lied about her contract, Billie leaves him and collaborates with several songwriters, including Rafael, with whom she makes another hit single, "Want You", and her debut album becomes a massive success.  Billie begins writing a song on her own, due to her emotional pain. Dice also misses Billie, and also begins writing a song. Billie goes to Dice's apartment to reconcile with him but discovers he is not home. She discovers the music he has written and realizes they wrote the same song, "Never Too Far", and kisses his music sheet. Dice, upon seeing her lipstick prints on the sheet, plans a reconciliation but is shot dead by Timothy. Before playing at Madison Square Garden, a devastated Billie sees the news report of Dice's death, and onstage after, commands the band to stop playing "Loverboy". She tearfully tells the audience not to take the ones they love for granted, and she then performs "Never Too Far" as a tribute to Dice. Afterward, Billie reads a note Dice had left her, where he tells her that he loves her and that he has found Lillian. Billie's limo takes her to the secluded rural property where she is happily reunited with her mother.