In the early morning hours on April 20, a man burying his wife in the woods sees a meteor crash nearby. Investigating, he finds it is no meteor, but an alien capsule containing a large Space Bong, that he takes with him. Alistair McDowell, now working at the Space Institute, has been tracking the comet. He finds it in the woods and realizes it is not a comet. He is surprised by Larnell, who is apparently a Black Belt now and who initially does not recognize him (a reference to Alistair’s 2nd recasting). He immediately pushes conspiracy theories on Al, claiming James Cameron is an alien and that all forms of government agencies are corrupt. He also explains he is running from the government, living off-grid and training in fighting with a “Ninja Master” Wong Dong, who is really just a car stereo thief. He convinces Al to help him find what he thinks is an alien bong, due to the marijuana residue on the object. The Killer Husband brings the Space Bong to a small smoke shop co-owned by Brett and Bachman and sells it to them. It is revealed that the alien marijuana he found on the meteor, has spread like a rash over his skin. Brett calls Al to see if he can tell them anymore about the bong. In a back room, Bachman smokes from Space Bong, who comes to life, and is pulled into Space Bong’s Bong World, where he is set upon by mostly nude women.  Al and Larnell arrive to inspect the Bong. Brett notices the alien fungus has grown on things the Killer Husband touched and Al finds the same thing happening with his meteor samples. Just then, Rabbit, still a “practicing” priest shows up for a scheduled “study session” with Bachman, who has gone missing. Brett’s ex girlfriend, Luann, who he now avoids, briefly stops by. Rabbit’s enticed into smoking from Space Bong who reveals his intentions to take over Earth. Larnell, Brett, and Al enter the back room in time to see Rabbit being sucked into the Bong World. Larnell suggests they contact his grandfather, Cyril (now a medical marijuana doctor going by Dr. Weed) who shows up with his assistant Nurse Hookah. Cyril, along with Evil Bong, Eebee, was ditched by the gang in the Amazon after defeating King Bong, and having escaped together, the two have since become friends and business partners. Space Bong insults Eebee, so she and Cyril agree to help the gang stop the alien invader, who thinks he can outsmart everyone. Larnell, Alistair and Eebee all enter Space Bongs Bong World while Nurse Hookah holds Brett hostage, per Cyril’s orders, in case anything goes wrong.  Inside, Larnell and Eebee find Rabbit and Bachman hooked up to an alien contraptions used to farm their sperm. Soon, Alistair finds himself trapped in one of the machines. Meanwhile outside Bong World, Space Bong convinces Cyril that he is not an invader an simply a peaceful alien visitor. Brett overpowers Nurse Hookah and enters the Bong World. He finds Rabbit and Bachman, both milked dry and delirious, Bachman covered in the alien fungus. The trio find Eebee and Larnell trying to get Al out of the sperm extractor, whose sperm is more valuable to Space Bong since he is more intelligent. Larnell uses him fighting skills to take out the nude alien women and free Al, but the gang is still trapped in Space Bong’s Bong World.  Eebee suggests they create a reverse entryway out of the Bong World by combining Space Bong’s “female units” and smoke from alien-weed-covered Bachman, who they light on fire. After, he lights up a joint, the power of which causes Space Bong and his women to explode, returning the gang to Earth. Some time later, Brett and Luann are back together and the gang is hanging out at his shop. Larnell orders pizza, remarking on how he misses Velicity, who walks in with the pizza. She explains she lost her income after they destroyed King Bong and Cyril stopped employing her, so she is decided to stay with him. Brett is revealed to have some of the alien marijuana fungus growing on him, to Luann’s dismay. In a final scene, Cyril and Nurse Hookah find the original meteor, the crash site now having been overgrown with the alien weed.