Lily, Chloe, Amelia, and Rebecca are at junior prom. Chloe's brother Thomas takes Lily onto the field and she tells him she cannot imagine leaving. They almost kiss when Rebecca and the others tell them their hired limousine has arrived.  Lily takes Rebecca and Amelia home, taking Chloe to meet Thomas in the mountains. The three separate. Thomas is killed in a car crash on the way home. At the funeral, Chloe hugs her mother, crying as Lily remains silent.  A year later, the girls arrive at school stoned. Lily talks with Noah about prom, then she and Chloe walk down the halls, recalling how many times they have done so.  Lily arranges parties at various houses. When the girls get back to the car they see their "Donkey Bong". Amelia tells Rebecca her parents are divorcing, saying they only see her as an extension of their ego. Lily and Chloe see their pot dealer friend Biff who reminds them of Thomas's favourite strain, “cough”.  Lily argues with the principal about her strengths and weaknesses. Chloe walks onto the field, remembering the previous year. She plays Thomas's last voice message. Sam consoles her, asking her to prom. Noah serenades Lily as a promposal but fails. As she and Chloe talk, Rebecca barges in, telling them someone caught her masturbating over the school librarian, Bemis.  The girls then go to a house party. Noah arrives, apologising to Lily by offering her a joint and then makes out with her. The cops arrive to break up the party.  Lily and Sam sell prom tickets the next day when Lily finds out that Liv was traumatised by James, who got her in trouble by writing a dirty joke on an essay. After she scolds him, Noah texts her to come over to fool around. The next day, his ex threatens Lily.  The girls go to another party, Chloe tells Lily she got into New York  University but wants to go to University of California Santa Barbara. Lily becomes  very upset, and retreats to a room with a boy from another school, Mike, and is raped. Chloe, Rebecca and Amelia all ditch her, so she calls a taxi and cries all the way home.  The next morning, everyone visits her house, and she chides Amelia and Rebecca for not telling her about Chloe's acceptance letter. They all start badmouthing Lily, so she walks away. Chloe stops her, saying she is being selfish for wanting her to not be friends with people who did not know Thomas.  Angry, Lily drives down the street with a flashback of Thomas, stopping when she sees Rebecca at a coffee shop with her potential roommate and mocking them until a police officer comes up. Meaning to ask her why she is illegally parked, he then notices Donkey Bong in the back. Lily panics until the officer tells her that he won't ruin her life forever but will mess it up for at least a week.  Lily is forced by her mother to destroy the bong. The girls dodge her calls, leaving her alone. Noah tries to talk to Lily, but she remains stubborn, forcing him to walk away.  James helps Lily see she has been selfish. At prom, alone, she goes to the bathroom to cry. Rebecca talks to Bemis while Lily has a flashback of her and Thomas on the field declaring their love.  Lily apologises to Chloe for being intense about Thomas, saying the pain will never go away but that she cannot mourn what she could have been. They reconcile and go inside, where Lily apologises to Amelia and Rebecca. There, Chloe kicks Mike, and Noah's girlfriend breaks up with him. Sam takes a picture of the girls who then bury the remains of Donkey Bong with Jon Bong Jovi, Sean Bongery and Bong Connery.  Lily practices her graduation speech in front of her friends, then the entire school. At their family graduation party, Bemis arrives, introducing himself as “Immanuel”. Noah congratulates Lily on her speech and they kiss, and she has a photo taken with her brother and sister. Amelia then notices their marijuana brownies were given to their parents. Looking off into the sky and distant Los Angeles, the story ends.