In South Dakota, best friends Kevin O'Connor and Bobby Green are walking through the woods on their way home when they are kidnapped.  The two boys wake up inside the trunk of a car, and Kevin is taken inside while Bobby is left locked in the trunk. He is able to free himself and escape, but decides against running away after he hears Kevin screaming for help. He makes his way inside and discovers that Kevin has been chained up in the attic. The Creep arrives to the house and provides the kidnapper with a wad of cash. The kidnapper provides the Creep with a watch that is counting down an hour. The Creep visits Kevin in the locked room, but is distracted when Bobby accidentally drops a paperweight. The Creep eventually  discovers Bobby and chases him, ending up in the kitchen, where Bobby accidentally kills him.  Bobby finds keys in the Creep's coat pocket but none of them unlocks the door behind which Kevin is trapped. His plan to use the Creep's car to get help doesn't work. While searching for another key, he discovers a trunk full of bloody boys' clothes and a rotary phone. He is able to call the police but the kidnapper returns and Bobby has to hang up before the police can track his location.  While the kidnapper checks on Kevin and showers, Bobby gets rid of the Creep's body and cleans up the blood in the kitchen. He discovers a safe containing cash, another key, and nude photos of other boys. He tries the new key but it doesn't work. He then tries picking the lock with a knife, slicing his hand and leaving a smear of blood on the door. The kidnapper notices the blood and realizes that Bobby is in the house. Bobby hides and traps himself in the bathroom and the kidnapper chops their way through with an axe, but Bobby is able to slice their hand with a nail file.  The police arrive and the kidnapper, revealed to be a woman, answers the door. She claims to be alone but the officer asks for her ID. After the woman doesn't return, the officer goes inside and discovers Bobby. He is then struck in the chest with an axe and Bobby hides. The kidnapper takes the officer's gun. She discovers the Creep's body, then follows Bobby down to the basement and explains that she expected him to suffocate in the trunk.  	 She offers to trade Kevin for Bobby to her buyer, at which point Bobby attacks her, handcuffing her to a pipe and stealing her keys. He is shot in the leg, but is able to slowly make it upstairs. Finally able to unlock the door, he frees Kevin (using the key he found in the safe with the pictures) and the boys make their way back downstairs, but Kevin is halted by a shock collar. Bobby runs back to the basement for pruning shears, but the kidnapper grabs his leg and sticks her finger in his bullet hole. Bobby frees himself by cutting her finger off, but he is too weak to make it back upstairs.   		 		 Kevin fights his way down to Bobby, suffering multiple shocks. He removes the collar using the pruning shears and attends to Bobby, who tells him to leave. Kevin refuses, and helps Bobby to the officer's car. He calls for help using the radio, finds a taser and a first aid kit, and treats Bobby's leg. The kidnapper frees herself from the basement, finds the boys, and drags Bobby outside the car. Before she can kill him, Kevin shocks her with the taser. The boys retreat to the woods and the kidnapper gives chase. She corners them and is about to kill them when a police officer shoots her dead.  		 	 Kevin and Bobby receive medical treatment and are taken home. The pair are later shown on a beach in California, where they said they wanted to go.