On Christmas Eve in 1973, a baby living at an orphanage crawls into Santa Claus' sack at the sight of a teddy bear, and is unwittingly taken back to the North Pole. When the infant is discovered at the workshop, the elves name him Buddy after the brand label on his diaper, "Little Buddy Diapers", and one of them adopts and raises him. Buddy is accepted by the elf community and grows up thinking he is an elf, calling his adoptive father "Papa Elf".   In the present day, Buddy learns that he is actually a human. Papa Elf tells Buddy that he was born to Walter Hobbs and Susan Wells, and that Susan put him up for adoption prior to her death. Walter now works for Greenway Press, a children's book publishing company, at the Empire State Building in New York City, and is unaware of Buddy's existence. Santa also reveals to Buddy that Walter is on the Naughty List due to his selfishness, but suggests that Buddy could help redeem him with some Christmas spirit.  Buddy travels to New York and finds Walter at work, though Walter mistakes him for a Christmas-gram messenger and has him ejected. Buddy is drawn toward a Gimbels department store all decorated for Christmas, where he meets Jovie, an unenthusiastic employee whom he becomes romantically attracted to. Hearing that Santa will be at the store to make an appearance the following day, Buddy redecorates the store overnight. However, discovering that the Gimbels' Santa is not the genuine article, Buddy unmasks him and causes a brawl that the manager breaks up.  Walter reluctantly bails Buddy out of the police station and takes him for a DNA test, which confirms that Buddy is his biological son. Dr. Leonardo convinces Walter to take Buddy home to meet his stepmother Emily and half-brother Michael. Buddy's strange behavior annoys Walter and Michael, but Emily insists that they take care of him until he returns to his supposed senses. Michael warms up to Buddy after they defeat a gang of bullies in a snowball fight and Michael encourages him to ask Jovie out on a date. During the date, the two fall in love and kiss.  Meanwhile, Walter's publishing company is failing after their latest book flops. Walter's boss, Fulton Greenway, expects Walter to have a new book ready by Christmas Eve. Walter and his team secure a meeting with best-selling children's author Miles Finch, but Buddy interrupts the meeting and mistakes Finch, who has dwarfism, for an elf. Buddy unintentionally insults Finch before Finch attacks him and angrily leaves the meeting, upon which Walter loses his temper and harshly disowns Buddy. Heartbroken, Buddy writes an apology note on an Etch A Sketch and leaves Walter's apartment.  Upon finding Finch's notebook full of ideas that was left behind, Walter and his team scramble to create a book to pitch. As Walter prepares to pitch the book to Greenway, Michael arrives and informs Walter of Buddy's departure. Realizing his mistake, Walter quits his job and walks out with Michael to find Buddy. Meanwhile, Buddy sees Santa's sleigh crash in Central Park, attracting a large crowd. Santa explains that the sleigh's engine is lost and cannot fly without it due to a shortage of Christmas spirit.  Buddy finds the engine and reunites with Walter and Michael. Walter apologizes to Buddy for how he treated him and finally accepts him as his son. After Buddy takes them to meet Santa, Michael takes Santa's list and reads it out in front of television news cameras, proving that Santa is real. A group of Central Park Rangers sent to investigate the crash (whom Santa recognizes as on the naughty list), chase the sleigh as Buddy tries to reattach the engine. Jovie leads the crowd and those watching on television in singing "Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town", raising enough Christmas spirit to fully power the sleigh without the engine.  By the following Christmas, Buddy writes a bestselling autobiography in the format of a picture book, which allows Walter to establish his own publishing company. Buddy also marries Jovie and brings their newborn daughter Susie to visit Papa Elf.