A group of al-Qaeda-backed local rebels disguised as lab technicians, led by Rasheed (Dick Israel), stage a raid on the Sultan Kudarat Airbase, home of the Joint U.S. Tactical Command in the Philippines. They manage to seize control of a "ground control encoder", an American device that locks out the controls and instruments in an aircraft, allowing it to be remotely controlled from the ground. The encoder was designed to prevent aircraft hijackings in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, but the rebels intend to use it to cause another aircraft suicide attack.  With three airborne airliners as possible targets, the terrorists send out a warning that they will not hesitate to crash them and kill those on board in their attacks on government facilities. Despite efforts to stop them, the terrorists crash the first airliner into the airbase, destroying most of the aircraft and helicopters in the base and killing the occupants.  Barely escaping the attack on the airbase, pilot Captain Amy Jennings (Theresa Randle) appeals to her commanding officer, Colonel Halloran (Jeff Fahey), to airlift the U.S. Marines Strike Force Team, led by Captain Matt Daniels (Mark Dacascos), to defeat the rebels. The team is flown into the Philippines jungle to track down the rebels outside the airport perimeter. Once within striking distance, Jennings disobeys orders and rappels down to join Daniels and his team. The rebels are defeated, but they are revealed to be a decoy; in retaliation, the rebels crash the second airliner, and plan to use the last one against a nearby city.  Captain Daniels is ordered to return with his team, where they learn the rebels are using a broadcast company building as their headquarters. Captain Jennings airlifts Daniels and his team, but they are intercepted by armed rebels; only Daniels and Jennings survive.  Daniels takes out Rasheed's right-hand man and Jennings pursues Rasheed, who flees on a motorcycle. Jennings and Daniels pursue him in a helicopter, manage to catch up to and kill Rasheed, and take the encoder.