Carlo Powers and Detective Sal Procida are having a conversation in a car when Sal shoots Carlo, grabs a bag of money and flees. Sal later confesses the murder to a priest, asking for help with his abysmal financial situation: his wife is pregnant with twins, and they live in a house that is too small for their four existing children; it also has mold that jeopardizes his family's health.  Desperate to move, Sal has arranged to purchase a larger home through a woman who owes him a favor. The down payment is due the following Tuesday, and Sal is still short. Sal, who is a highly skilled and accomplished New York City Police Department (NYPD) narcotics detective, has begun to steal drug money from raids.  Officer Edward "Eddie" Dugan is a week from retirement after 22 years of unremarkable service with the NYPD. Despite his impending retirement, Eddie is assigned to oversee a rookie. Eddie is an alcoholic who drinks immediately upon waking and has suicidal thoughts. The only person he can speak to honestly is Chantel, a sex worker he hires regularly.  Officer Clarence "Tango" Butler is an undercover cop working the drug beat. Tango is tired of the kind of attention attracted by a black man in a black BMW. Having been promised a promotion including a desk job for years, Butler is finally offered detective first grade if he betrays his close friend Caz Phillips, a known criminal recently released from federal prison. Federal Agent Smith instructs Tango to set up the drug deal that will ensure Caz's arrest and return to federal prison.  Eddie's rookie partner has a background with the Marine Corps and becomes disgusted with Eddie's apparent cowardice and cynicism. The rookie asks to be reassigned, but he is killed on his next assignment. Eddie's second rookie partner accidentally fires his gun near a teenager's head during a petty theft investigation. The teenager goes deaf, leaving the NYPD facing a public relations nightmare. During the investigation, Eddie is remorseful for what will happen to the rookie, but refuses to twist the truth to portray the teen as a drug dealer despite encouragement by Internal Affairs investigators.   When Tango warns Caz to abort their upcoming drug deal, they are ambushed. Caz is shot under orders from Red, a gangster Tango had previously humiliated. After Smith makes a racist remark and refuses to pursue Red, a furious Tango lunges at her but fellow officers restrain him.  Sal's team's latest raid on an apartment is cancelled, but he goes anyway to steal the money for his house. One of his team members, Detective Ronny Rosario, tries but fails to stop Sal from going.   Eddie retires from the police department and visits Chantel, who refuses his offer to move to Connecticut. While sitting in his car contemplating suicide, Eddie sees a woman who had earlier been reported missing being shoved into a van. Eddie follows the van to the Van Dyke housing projects.  As Sal approaches, Tango enters the building, having come to kill Red. Sal breaks into the apartment and, after killing three drug dealers, discovers their stockpile of cash. Sal is shot and killed by the young man who became suspicious earlier when he noticed Sal hanging around.  Tango leaves Gutta alive and pursued a wounded Red outside the building into the street to kill him. An arriving Rosario mistakes him for a gangster and shoots him in the back. Only after shooting Tango does Rosario realize he has shot another officer. He immediately calls for an ambulance. Rosario leaves a wounded Tango to continue his search for Sal in order to stop him. Rosario witnesses the young man who shot Sal running away from the crime scene and is devastated when he finds Sal's dead body in the apartment.  Meanwhile, Eddie locates a sex slave dungeon in the building's basement. Eddie apprehends one of the men and is confronted by another. When the second man does not comply with his orders to get on the floor, Eddie shoots him once in the chest, beginning a violent fight that ends with Eddie strangling his opponent with a zip tie. The emergency response workers take custody of the girls and men while Eddie walks away.