The film revolves around everyman high school student Kyle, who needs a high score on the SAT to get into Cornell University's architecture program. He constantly compares himself to his older brother Larry, who is now living above his parents' garage. Kyle's best friend, Matty, wants to get a high score to go to the same college as his girlfriend, but he is an underachiever who had previously received a low score on his PSAT. They feel the SAT is blocking their futures.  The two boys realize fellow student Francesca Curtis' father owns the building that houses the regional office of ETS, where the SAT answers are located. She initially doesn't want to help but reconsiders, saying "What the hell? It sounds like fun." Meanwhile, Kyle attracted to Anna Ross, the second-highest ranked student in the school, he tells her about the plan. Anna had bombed a previous SAT and needs a good score to get into Brown University.  Matty doesn't like the fact that Anna now knows about the plan and rants, right in front of stoner Roy, who then has to be included in the heist. Finally, Anna tells the school basketball star Desmond Rhodes, who needs a score of 900 or better to join the basketball team at St. John's University.  An early attempt to break into the ETS offices fails, but they then devise another plan. On the eve of the exam, Francesca will arrange for Kyle and Matty to have a meeting near the top floor, staying after closing. The other three will wait outside and watch the night guard until Francesca, Kyle, and Matty have successfully stolen the answers.  The plan initially goes well, with Francesca, Kyle, and Matty successfully avoiding security cameras and the night guard. However, the answers are located on a computer, and only the technical genius Roy can crack the password; he and the other two get into the building, and Roy correctly guesses the password after seeing a photograph of an employee. Still, the answers can't be printed, so the group decides to take the test with their combined knowledge and get the answers that way. In the early hours of morning, they are finished and have all the answers written down.  Just then, the guard comes up the stairs, and they try to escape through the ceiling; however, Francesca is left behind and is about to be discovered, so Matty sacrifices himself to save her. Everyone else escapes, but each faces a certain confrontation before the exam: Kyle's brother asks him if he's really worse than a thief, Matty is bailed out by Francesca, Anna finds independence from her parents, and Desmond's mother convinces Roy to quit drugs.  Before the SAT testing begins, the group realizes that, although it will help get them what they want, they would be better off without cheating. Roy grabs the answers and randomly distributes them in the bathroom. After the decision, Matty comments that "this whole thing was for nothing." Kyle replies, "I wouldn't say nothing", as he glances at Anna. Matty and Francesca also share a look, as they have also presumably started a relationship.  Each person eventually gets their desired test score without the answers: Kyle's dream of becoming an architect is still alive by attending Syracuse University, Desmond ends up going to St. John's, Matty becomes an actor, Francesca writes a novel (which is about six kids who conspire to steal the answers to the SAT), and Anna decides to travel to Europe for a while before starting college. Roy explains that he earned the highest SAT in the county, and, guided by Desmond's mom, he gets a GED. He then puts his untapped intelligence to use through programming, becoming a successful video game designer.