Billy "the Great" Hope (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a professional boxer, and the reigning champion in the Light Heavyweight division with an Orthodox stance and a won-loss record of 42-0, living in New York City with his wife, Maureen (Rachel McAdams), and their only daughter, Leila (Oona Laurence). During his match against Darius Jones (Cedric D. Jones) at Madison Square Garden, Maureen is scared as Billy takes several horrific hits to the face, resulting in profuse bleeding out of his eye. Billy wins the match by knockout and retains the light heavyweight title, despite nasty injuries.  As the press surrounds Billy, a younger upstart boxer, Miguel "Magic" Escobar (Miguel Gomez), taunts Billy to fight him. Upon returning home, Maureen fears for Billy's safety and urges him to quit. Later at the Hope house, Maureen talks to Billy's manager, Jordan Mains (50 Cent), and disagrees with his plan to get Billy to sign a two-year deal for three more fights.  Billy and Maureen go to a fundraiser ball where Billy gives a speech, acknowledging Maureen, Leila, Jordan, and his friends. Miguel is in attendance as well, and as Billy is leaving, Miguel goads him by insulting Maureen and saying he will take his titles away from him, leading to a brawl. A gunshot (from Miguel's brother Hector) rings out and Billy sees that Maureen has been shot. Hector flees while Maureen dies in Billy's arms.  Shortly thereafter, Billy begins abusing alcohol and drugs. Billy meets with Jordan, who suggests selling the house to solve his financial problems. Jordan then books Billy a fight against Kalil Turay, in which Billy gets beaten up so badly that his corner throws in the towel. Blinded by damage due to headshots, Billy accidentally headbutts the referee in the face. Billy is suspended for a year, has no income, and owes the ref and the networks damages. His house and belongings are repossessed. Both Jordan and longtime trainer Eli Frost abandon him to work with Miguel.  Billy runs his car into the tree outside his home one night. Leila finds Billy bleeding on the floor and calls 911. Billy wakes up in the hospital to learn that Leila is being put in the care of Child Protective Services officer Angela Rivera (Naomie Harris). With nowhere left to go, Billy visits the Wills Gym, where he meets former boxer Tick Wills (Forest Whitaker), who is blind in one eye after his last fight left him injured. Billy wants Tick to get him back on his feet, but Tick knows about his drug problems and declines to train him. He offers Billy a janitorial job.  Billy meets with Angela to see Leila. However, Leila blames him for their problems and refuses to see him. Billy returns to the gym and accepts the janitorial job. While working there, he befriends a boy named Hoppy (Skylan Brooks), who is also an aspiring boxer. He learns that Hoppy's father abuses his mother, which he reports to Tick. As he starts to make amends in his life, Billy continues visiting Leila, and his persistence wins her over. After winning a charity match, Billy is visited by Jordan. He now manages Miguel, who recently won the championship from Kalil Turay. Jordan wants to book a fight between the two within six weeks, knowing that Billy will not have enough time to train. Billy thinks he can make a comeback and wants Tick to train him, but Tick refuses, believing Billy just wants revenge.  Billy later learns from Tick that Hoppy has died after trying to defend his mother from his father, who shot him. Lamenting that he could not save Hoppy, Tick decides to help Billy train for the upcoming fight. Noting his efforts to turn his life around, the judge grants Billy custody of Leila, and she moves back in with him. Visiting Maureen's grave together, Billy tells Leila he is going to fight again and grants her wish of letting her remain present.  On the night of the fight, Angela brings Leila into the dressing room where they watch it on TV. Miguel takes the early upper hand. Both fighters trade furious punches, round after round. Miguel then insults Maureen, causing Billy to lose concentration. In a fit of rage, Billy lashes out and almost stops the fight. Tick cautions Billy not to let Miguel control him. Billy controls his anger and in the final round, gains the upper hand against Miguel. In the final seconds, Billy blocks a jab from Miguel and lands a shot to the face before turning southpaw and with a furious uppercut, sends Miguel to the canvas. Miguel gets up at the last second and both corners are filled with two teams' staffs.  Despite a split decision (final score 344-341, with Billy having 3 points over Miguel) giving the first rounds to Miguel, Billy is announced as the new champion. Billy then collapses in the corner, thanking Maureen and committing himself to Leila. Tick and the team lift him up on their shoulders as he closes his eyes tearfully and smiles. After the fight, Leila meets Billy in the dressing room, where they hug for the first time since Maureen's death. Billy says Maureen would be proud of her, and she tells him she loves him.