In 1809, on a plantation in Southampton County, Virginia, Nat Turner is a young slave boy. Due to limited food for their children, Nat's father, Isaac, ventures out one night to steal something for his son to eat. However, he is apprehended by a posse led by slave-catcher Raymond Cobb. When Cobb attempts to execute Isaac, he turns the tables, killing one member of the posse, and escapes. Upon returning home, Isaac informs his family of the incident and the need for his immediate departure. Before leaving, he shares a final conversation with Nat, emphasizing that he is "a child of God" with a purpose. When Cobb arrives and interrogates Isaac's family about his whereabouts, they remain silent. Benjamin Turner, the owner of the farm, intervenes and drives Cobb away before he turns violent.  Elizabeth Turner, Benjamin's wife, discovers Nat's basic reading skills and begins teaching him, primarily using the Bible. She even arranges for Nat to read Scripture during church gatherings. However, shortly before Benjamin's presumed death from tuberculosis, he instructs his wife to cease Nat's education and assign him to work as a farmhand. As an adult, Nat continues to toil in the cotton fields while also preaching and reading Scripture for his fellow slaves. Samuel Turner, Benjamin's son, inherits ownership of the plantation.  During a slave auction, Nat becomes enamored with Cherry, a female slave up for sale. He persuades Samuel to purchase her as a wedding gift for Samuel's sister, Catherine Turner. Nat and Cherry fall in love, marry, and have a daughter. Due to the deteriorating economic conditions in the South and the poor crop prices, many slave owners struggle to feed their slaves and fear potential revolts. Reverend Walthall proposes an arrangement to Samuel: if Samuel travels with Nat to various plantations, where Nat can preach to the slaves, they will receive substantial compensation from other plantation owners. The intention is to pacify the slaves and convince them that the Bible justifies their endurance of their circumstances. Samuel, in need of money, reluctantly agrees.  During their visits to different plantations, Nat and Samuel witness emaciated and desperate slaves, as well as instances of appalling mistreatment by their owners. Following the death of his grandmother, Nat resolves to rebel against the slaveholders. He holds a clandestine meeting with a select group of trusted fellow slaves, including a boy from another plantation, and prepares them for the uprising. Nat also confides in Cherry, who is still recovering from a severe beating, seeking her approval for the planned revolt.  Under cover of darkness, Nat and a fellow slave enter their owners' house and kill Samuel and the manager. They then rally the other slaves on the plantation, and most of them join their cause. Throughout the night, they seize control of several other plantations, killing the slave owners. During one takeover, they realize that the boy has gone missing. Shortly afterward, they are ambushed by a group of white men, alerted by the boy, and are forced to retreat. The next morning, they march into the town of Jerusalem to procure weapons. They encounter another group of white men, led by Cobb once again, but manage to overcome them, with Nat personally killing Cobb. However, their hopes are shattered upon discovering an empty arsenal. They are swiftly attacked by soldiers, resulting in the death of every slave except Nat, who escapes.  In a secret meeting with Cherry, Nat learns of the retaliatory murder of innocent slaves and the potential for more bloodshed as long as he remains on the run. Consequently, Nat decides to surrender himself and is condemned to death. During his hanging, Nat notices the slave boy who betrayed their group in the crowd, but he harbors no ill will towards him. The film concludes with a fade from the boy's tearful face to the face of an adult soldier, presumably the same boy now grown up and fighting for the Union Army during the American Civil War.