U.S. Army Sergeant First Class Aaron Hallam, a former Delta Force operator, has spent much of his career performing covert assassinations and black operations for the U.S. government. He is awarded the Silver Star for his service in the Kosovo War (specifically for assassinating a genocidal Serbian military commander), but is left wracked with irreversible Battle Stress and PTSD from the atrocities he witnessed.  In the wilderness of Silver Falls State Park, Oregon, Hallam encounters two hunters equipped with expensive scoped rifles. Hiding in the brush, Hallam tells them that, due to their use of guns and scopes, they are not "true hunters". Insulted, the hunters pursue him, but are overwhelmed by Hallam's tactics and traps and are brutally murdered.  L.T. Bonham, a former civilian survival and combat instructor for spec ops soldiers, lives in a secluded cabin deep in the woods of British Columbia. He is approached by the FBI, who ask him to help apprehend the perpetrator of the killings. Bonham agrees and joins the FBI task force led by Assistant Special Agent in Charge Abby Durrell. Arriving at the crime scene, he proves that one man with a knife was responsible for the hunters’s deaths, not several men with hatchets as previously believed by the agents. Bonham convinces Abby let him  track the killer on his own, but she insists that he take an FBI radio.  Bonham discovers Hallam's personal effects in a small cave right before the assassin shows up, and recognizes him as one of his students. The latter asks the former why he never answered the letters he sent, but Bonham demands to know why Hallam killed those hunters. His protege explains that he believes the men were “sweepers” sent to eliminate him. Bonham tries and fails to get Hallam to surrender, and two of them come to blows. After knocking his teacher down, Hallam is struck by an FBI tranquilizer (Bonham’s radio had a tracer) and taken into custody.  During his interrogation, Hallam is uncooperative and looks mainly to Bonham, who he views as a father figure. The FBI are then forced to hand  him over to three of his fellow JSOC operators led by Dale Hewitt, who arrive with a letter authorizing taking possession of the prisoner. Hewitt tells them that Hallam lost control during a post-Kosovo mission, killing numerous innocent civilians, and can’t stand trial because his military assignments are classified. While being transported, Hallam is told by his captors that he’ll be terminated to ensure his silence; he manages to kill all the operatives and escape.  Alerted to the incident, Bonham and the FBI search for Hallam. Bonham finds him at the house of his ex-girlfriend and her daughter in Portland. The two have a tense stare-down and stand-off, but he flees after Abby arrives to apprehend him. Pursued by the FBI and the Portland Police Bureau, Hallam ambushes and kills Harry Van Zandt, Abby’s Boss, and her partner and friend Bobby Moret in a sewer, before boarding a streetcar to blend in. The police block the bridge the streetcar is on, and he takes a hostage at knife-point to escape from Bonham. Eventually, Hallam climbs to and then dives off the top of the bridge, fleeing upstream.  Abby, devastated and wanting revenge for her fallen colleagues, intends to deploy the full force of the FBI into the woods in search of Hallam. Bonham protests this, asserting that sending more agents after Hallam will only result in further bloodshed, and unsuccessfully argues that he is the only one who can stop the renegade soldier he trained.  Resurfacing up the river, Hallam crafts a knife out of reclaimed metal, as Bonham taught him. Meanwhile, Bonham crafts his own knife out of stone and enters the wilderness alone find Hallam. Bonham is caught by one of Hallam's traps and is thrown down a waterfall. Surviving, he meets Hallam at the bottom, and they engage in hand-to-hand combat. The two sustain severe injuries, and Bonham's knife is broken, but he gains the upper hand and fatally stabs Hallam with his own knife just as Abby and the FBI arrive.  Bonham, mostly recovered, returns to his home in British Columbia. He starts to burn Hallam's aforementioned letters, in which he expressed his concerns over the things he witnessed during his service.