Rosetta is busy helping to set up flowers for the big night when she meets a new garden fairy named Chloe. Chloe announces she has been training for the Pixie Hollow Games and is excited to be competing. Even though the garden fairies have little hope of winning and haven't ever won, Chloe is confident that she and her partner can turn things around and end their losing streak. When it comes time for the team selection, Chloe has already volunteered and Rosetta is selected to be her partner.  On the night of the games, Rosetta wears a fancy gown, certain that she and Chloe will be eliminated after one round. The storm fairies, Rumble and Glimmer, are the heavy favorites to win the competition due to their winning streak and having winners' rings for almost every finger. The first event is leapfrogging. Rosetta refuses to get onto the frog but finally does when the spectators yell in protest, leading to total chaos on the racetrack.  The next day, Rosetta and Chloe continue to compete in a series of games, such as dragonfly water skiing, twig-spheres, and mouse polo, slowly moving up in the standings during each game. The final challenge (a teacup race) arrives. Chloe dives down the chute with no trouble, but Rosetta nervously crawls down the chute, to Chloe's dismay. Rosetta's actions put them in last place, causing Chloe to start doubting her. Meanwhile, other teams start dropping which leaves only the garden and storm fairies.  Rosetta and Chloe take the mudslide mountain shortcut and successfully make it over thanks to Tinker Bell. However, in the last leg of the race, Rumble uses Glimmer's lightning ability to zap one of the wheels causing the girls' cart to crash. Glimmer is appalled. Seeing their cart destroyed, Rosetta and Chloe push their cart over the finish line and finish together. While Rumble celebrates his victory, Queen Clarion announces that the garden fairies are the winners. Rumble protests, until she shows him that Glimmer abandoned him just before the finish line for cheating, giving the victory to the garden fairies. Rosetta and Chloe broke their losing streak and they celebrate with their friends.