Melissa Scott and her fiancé Bobby Lawrence are on a cross country road trip to Las Vegas to get married. Joining them for the ride is Melissa's sister Kayla and Kayla's online boyfriend Nik.  During the trip, their car breaks down in the desert. Whilst looking for help, the four find a seemingly abandoned barn, in which they find a silver 1971 Chevrolet Chevelle in working order with a full tank of gas. The four reluctantly steal the car, although Melissa leaves a note in the house with her contact details for the owner of the car to find.  The next day, Melissa receives a phone call from Rusty Nail. He refers to Melissa as "Goldilocks", revealing that he can see her, and Bobby soon disappears from a diner restroom. The others find a CB radio in the car, through which Rusty Nail orders them to destroy their cellphones and obey his orders if Bobby is to survive. He requests for Kayla to cut off her middle finger, mirroring an earlier incident when she had flipped off a trucker who turned out to be Rusty himself. The group heads to a mortuary hospital, where Kayla cuts a finger from a corpse, but Rusty, knowing they have broken the rules, cuts off Bobby's finger and puts it in the glove compartment of the Chevelle, where it is eventually discovered by the group.  Rusty soon pulls up at a bar in Utah, and Bobby tries to escape. He gains the attention of a bartender, who tries to help out, but Rusty catches him in the act and kills the bartender. Nik then gets kidnapped by Rusty, and Melissa and Kayla chase them in the Chevelle. However, Rusty manages to ram the car several times in his truck, flipping the Chevelle over. Melissa manages to escape, but Kayla gets trapped and is killed after Rusty plows into the car again.  Rusty takes Bobby and Nik back to his home and sadistically tortures them, eventually killing Nik by impaling a steel bar through his head. Melissa, meanwhile, breaks into a police station and steals a motor bike, racing off to find Bobby. She eventually tracks Rusty down, and, after using the motor bike as a distraction, beats Rusty down with a shovel. She drives away in his truck, with Bobby locked in the trailer, but the trailer disconnects and leaves Bobby behind. Rusty manages to grab on to the side of the truck and climb on the roof. A scuffle ensues, in which Melissa manages to jump out of the truck right before it goes flying off of the edge of the cliff, upon where it explodes on impact. Bobby escapes from the trailer and meets back up with Melissa.  Later, Rusty is revealed to have miraculously survived the explosion after he picks up a girl whose car has broken down.