Keoghan is seeking advice from Jonathan and Simon Kennett about re-enacting Harry Watson's 1928 ride in the Tour de France on period bicycles. Jonathan Kennett's advice to Keoghan is:  I don't think that you know what you are letting yourself in for, and if you did, you wouldn't do it.  Keoghan proceeds regardless and talks Ben Cornell into being his riding partner. They procure racing bikes from the era, and Keoghan researches the original route and drives it. The day after the 2013 Tour de France arrives in Paris, Keoghan and Cornell set off; not as planned early in the morning but late in the afternoon after Cornell's bike was temporarily lost by an airline. Sticking to the original schedule for every stage, day 1 finished in the middle of the night; one of many night time finishes.  Keoghan and Cornell's experiences are interlaced with historic footage, showing the drama of the day. The 1928 race was designed to eliminate as many riders as possible, and of the 164 riders who started (other sources show slightly different numbers), only 41 finished the race. Historic footage is narrated in newsreader style by veteran New Zealand newsreader Hewitt Humphrey. French media coverage is conveyed, where the general expectation was for the Australasian team to be eliminated quickly, as they would not be able to keep up with the 10-person teams of European riders.  Keoghan and Cornell sometimes get joined by other riders. In the Pyrenees, a local cycle enthusiast and historian mapped out a detailed schedule which saw them start at midnight so that they would get to their destination before nightfall. The three set off together and by 8am, they had already covered , equating to half that day's distance. Keoghan wonders why they started so early, not realising that the harder part of the ride was still to come. In the end, Keoghan and Cornell could not keep up with their 65-year old host, who also rode a period bicycle, and they were slower than expected, finishing the day after 23 hours of riding. Keoghan and Cornell had difficulty navigating and on occasions, inadvertently ended up on A class roads where cycling is prohibited.  Keoghan and Cornell arrived back in Paris after 26 days, as per their schedule, outside the Parc des Princes that in 1928 was a velodrome. They reflected that there are parts of the ride that they cannot remember due to physical and mental exhaustion. Against the odds, three of the four Australasian riders reached Paris, defying all dire predictions. Keoghan repeatedly reflects that despite his and Cornell's exhaustion, their 2013 ride was much easier than what Watson encountered, with unsealed roads and many punctures per day.