New York photographer Ronit (known as Ronnie in the United States) returns to her childhood home in North London after her father, the old Rav Krushka succumbs to pneumonia. Ronit is uncomfortable seeing everyone again since she was banished from the community for behaving in a manner not conforming to Orthodox culture.  Ronit is shocked to learn that her childhood friends Dovid, a chosen disciple of her father, and Esti, are now married. Dovid invites Ronit to stay with them. They attend Shabbat dinner at her uncle Moshe's house where she is questioned by the guests about changing her name, and they tell her she should get married, because that is what is right. Ronit tells them if she had stayed in London she probably would have been married off, but she would have been suicidal.  Ronit, accompanied by Esti, visits Moshe at his office to discuss the disposition of her father's house and discovers her father has left all of his possessions to the synagogue. Upset, Esti tenderly kisses Ronit, who initially resists before reciprocating. Esti confesses to having asked Ronit to be notified of her father's death out of a desire to see her again. She also reveals her unhappiness with her life choices, taken based on the Rav's advice and her strong belief in HaShem. It is revealed that Ronit and Esti were caught in a romantic tryst when they were younger, leading Ronit to leave the United Kingdom; neither has been with another woman since.  On the way home, they stop at a nearby park and kiss again, but are spotted by a couple from the congregation. The next day Esti, who works as a teacher at the local Jewish school, is called into the headmistress' office after the couple deliver a complaint about what they saw. Meanwhile, Dovid is asked to take over the Rav's duties. Ronit tells Esti she is leaving London, and the two of them sneak away to a hotel room in central London for passionate sex.   When Esti arrives home, she turns down Dovid when he tries to initiate intimacy. She later tells him the truth about her feelings for Ronit, causing him to leave. Esti later purchases a pregnancy test and discovers she is pregnant. The next morning, Dovid calls Ronit and says that Esti is missing. They spend the day looking for her and, when they return home, Esti has come back; she asks Dovid for her freedom, stating that she wants to give her unborn child a chance to decide whether or not to be part of their community.  Ronit and Esti attend the Rav's hesped (eulogy gathering), which is to be given by Dovid. Under the guise of addressing the congregation, he releases Esti from their marriage and then publicly turns down the offer of becoming the congregation's new spiritual guide. Esti finds him outside and they embrace. Dovid motions for Ronit to join them, finally reconciling their old friendship.  Ronit departs for New York, cordially bidding Dovid and Esti goodbye. As Ronit's cab is driving away, Esti chases it down and gives her a final kiss. Ronit tells Esti that she will be a brilliant mother, and they confess their love for each other. Esti promises to let Ronit know where she goes. Before going to the airport, Ronit makes a detour to her father's grave to bid him a final goodbye after taking a picture of his grave.