The movie begins in Manhattan, two years after the first film, where the Cheetah Girls have just completed their junior year and are performing at a Graduation Party for the Manhattan Magnet's Class of 2006 ("The Party's Just Begun").  Later while having a sleep-over at Galleria's (Raven-Symoné), Chanel (Adrienne Bailon) tells the girls that her mother, Juanita (Lori Anne Alter), is planning a trip to Barcelona, Spain, where they will be visiting Luc (Abel Folk), Juanita's boyfriend. Aqua (Kiely Williams) sees a shooting star and the girls make a wish together—to go to Spain with Chanel. A gust of wind flips one of the girls’ magazine pages to an ad for a Barcelona music festival. Galleria enters the Cheetah Girls and the next day, her mother Dorothea (Lynn Whitfield), Juanita, and the Cheetah Girls all decide to travel to Spain together.  When the girls arrive in Barcelona, they meet Angel (Peter Vives), a mysterious guitar player who accompanies them around Barcelona as they sing to the entire city, and he becomes Galleria's love interest ("Strut"). The next day, the girls successfully audition for the festival ("Cheetah Sisters").  The following day, they meet Joaquin (Golan Yosef), Luc's godson and a dancer who becomes a love interest for Dorinda (Sabrina Bryan). Dorinda visits his studio where he teaches her tango ("Dance With Me").  That night, Joaquin takes the Cheetahs to The Dancing Cat, a local Spanish night club where all of the new artists perform their songs ("Why Wait") ("A La Nanita Nana"). They meet and befriend Marisol (Belinda), a beloved Spanish pop star, who will also compete in the Music Festival, and her manager/mother, Lola (Kim Manning). Lola appears nice and wins the Cheetah Girls' affection, but secretly plans a scheme to break up the girls, as they pose a threat to her daughter's chances in the competition. Meanwhile, Aqua and Dorothea have been designing clothes, Juanita is trying to get a proposal out of Luc, Dorinda is teaching hip hop to Joaquin's class, and Galleria is the only one focused on the competition, as she is writing a song called, "Amigas Cheetahs", which they will sing at the competition ("Do Your Own Thing").  Galleria notices that everyone is getting involved in other activities except for her ("It's Over"), and eventually decides to take a train to Paris, where she can meet up with her father and go home. While at a train station, the other three girls find Galleria and convince her to stay after promising to stay focused. Later, Chanel overhears Juanita talking to Dorothea about how she believes that Luc doesn't want to marry her because Chanel doesn't like him. Luc later proposes to Juanita, after Chanel gives him permission, and she gladly accepts. Luc tells Chanel that she can stay in New York with her friends for her upcoming senior year.  After the Cheetah Girls finish performing at The Dancing Cat ("Step Up"), Lola convinces the club manager to pay the Cheetah Girls. The competition will only allow amateur performs to compete, and accepting payment disqualified them. They return the money and Angel, who was present during the entire exchange, investigates.  Lola suggests that since the Cheetah Girls cannot perform as a group, Chanel should perform with Marisol instead. Right before Chanel is going to perform with Marisol, the Festival Director informs that the Cheetah Girls are able to perform after speaking to Angel, who is revealed to be his nephew. He informed the director of Lola’s attempts, and his uncle reinstates the group. Marisol stands up to her mother and drops out of the competition. The Cheetah Girls then perform "Amigas Cheetahs" and bring Marisol onto the stage, along with Joaquin's dancing crew, Angel on the guitar and the Director on the trumpet, and the film ends.  In an alternate ending, Juanita and Luc get married("Cherish the Moment"). This scene is not shown in TV or sing-along versions.