Glen Topher, a successful writer and producer of television dramas based in New York City, informs his ex-wife Aura that their aimless 17-year-old daughter, China, wants to move in with him, presumably because of his wealthy lifestyle. Ralph, Glen's closest friend, insinuates that China spent her spring break in Florida playing sexual games with her classmates. China asks to go back to Florida to meet with the new friends she made there, and while Glen is worried, he agrees. Maggie, Glen's outspoken ex-girlfriend, accuses him of being a bad father for always giving his daughter whatever she wants.  Glen's new television series about nurses is set to air in the fall, but there is no script and no cast yet, much to the chagrin of Glen's nervous production partner Paula. Through the machinations of an agent, famous actress Grace Cullen shows up unannounced at Glen and Paula's production office, seeking the lead role in the show. Grace claims she has always wanted to work with Glen, who is charmed by her. A few days later, Grace invites Glen and China to a party where veteran film director Leslie Goodwin, whom Glen idolizes, is also in attendance. China is initially wary of Leslie due to media reports accusing him of being a pedophile but grows interested in him after they converse.  Glen soon enters into a romantic relationship with Grace, who informs him that Leslie has invited China on a trip to Paris with him and some friends. Glen is appalled, but when he confronts China about it, she is resolute about going. The situation leads Glen to a fight with Grace, and they break up. When China arrives home from Paris, Glen throws her a fancy celebration for her 18th birthday. Haunted by the notion that China may have had sex with the much older Leslie, Glen confronts them with his concerns, resulting in China getting upset with him and moving out of his house.  Months later, Glen is attending the Emmy Awards where Leslie has just received the Best Director award for a show featuring Ralph as its star. Leslie tells Glen that he felt inspired by him to accept doing television work and reveals that China rejected his sexual advances while in Paris. With Maggie acting as an intermediary, Glen meets China at her new job at a department store, where they begin reconciling.