Instead of attending the Muppets' annual Halloween party, Gonzo and Pepe are on their way to a fear challenge event in the same haunted mansion where Gonzo's favorite magician, The Great MacGuffin, disappeared one-hundred years ago. Upon being dropped off by their hearse driver (Yvette Nicole Brown), Gonzo and Pepe meet the Caretaker (Darren Criss), along with several ghosts and singing busts.  Their "Ghost Host" (Will Arnett) tells Gonzo that he has been summoned to the mansion to see if he can survive one night. If he cannot, he and Pepe will be trapped there forever. While Gonzo claims that he fears nothing, Pepe is easily scared by everything he sees in the mansion. After meeting Madame Pigota (who resembles Miss Piggy), Gonzo and Pepe come across a room full of several ghosts resembling various Muppets. The Host soon appears and informs Gonzo that in order to survive the mansion he must face his fears in Room 999.  As Gonzo is led to the room, Pepe meets and becomes entranced by the ghost of Constance Hatchaway (Taraji P. Henson), who plans to marry and then kill him as he meets the ghosts of her past husbands. Gonzo is trapped in Room 999 (with the room's number sign turning upside down to read "666") and starts to turn old as his reflection taunts him. Recalling a conversation with Kermit he had earlier, Gonzo realizes he is indeed afraid of something: that no one will like him if he does not do dangerous stunts. He then remembers the Host's advice of facing his fears being the key to escaping the room after fearing he will be trapped in the mansion forever. Finally, Gonzo ultimately realizes he is afraid of never seeing his friends again and the room de-ages and releases him.  The Host congratulates Gonzo for facing his fears and tells him that he is free to go so long as he makes it out by sunrise. After realizing that Pepe is in trouble, Gonzo refuses to leave without him. With the help of the Host's candelabra, Gonzo is able to find Pepe and stop the wedding. The pair jump out the window and make it out of the mansion just as the sun rises.  The Host meets them at the gate, revealing himself to be the Great MacGuffin, who is impressed that Gonzo was willing to do what he could not; face his fears. The hearse driver picks them up and Kermit calls asking to meet the pair for breakfast. He then comments that Gonzo and Pepe should bring their friends along, leading the two to turn and see the Hitchhiking Ghosts behind them.