Ten years after the deadly Simian Flu pandemic, the worldwide human population is drastically reduced, with only about 1 in 500 genetically immune. Human civilization has been destroyed after societal collapse among humans. A colony of apes, all bestowed with genetically enhanced intelligence by the virus, establish a colony in the Muir Woods near San Francisco, Led by Caesar, along with his lieutenants Maurice, Rocket, and Koba.  A group of humans, led by Malcolm, unknowingly enter the apes' territory in search of a hydroelectric dam that would restore power to their community in San Francisco. Carver, a member of Malcolm's group, injures Ash, Rocket's son, in an unexpected confrontation. Malcolm manages to prevent further escalation, and Caesar orders the humans to leave. Prompted by Koba, Caesar brings his army to the human community as a display of strength. Caesar announces that, while the apes do not want war, they will fight to defend themselves; he demands the humans stay in their territory. Malcolm convinces Dreyfus, the community's leader, to give him a chance to take a small team to the forest with the mission of reconciling with the apes and accessing the dam. Eventually, Caesar allows them to work on the generator on the condition that they surrender their guns. While working together, Malcolm, his wife Ellie, and his son Alexander bond with the apes. The fragile truce briefly falls apart when Carver is discovered to have kept a hidden gun and is thus forcibly sent away, but trust is restored when Ellie, who is a nurse, saves Cornelia, Caesar's ill wife.  Paranoid that the apes may attack, Dreyfus arms the community with the munitions at the Fort Point armory. Koba, who hates humans for torturing him as a laboratory test subject, discovers the armory and confronts Caesar, accusing him of caring more about humans than apes. Caesar violently attacks Koba in retaliation, but avoids killing him as "ape not kill ape". Koba later returns to the armory, kills two guards, returns home, and secretly kills Carver after the humans succeed in repairing the generator. Koba takes advantage of their celebration to covertly set fire to the ape colony. Unseen by the others, he shoots and seemingly kills Caesar, who falls into the underbrush. Koba frames the humans for Caesar's apparent death and the fire to justify war. Taking command, he leads the ape army to San Francisco, where they plunder the armory and mount a full-scale assault on the humans. Despite taking heavy casualties, the apes breach the building and imprison the humans as Dreyfus flees underground. Koba kills Ash for refusing to kill unarmed humans and imprisons the rest of Caesar's loyalists, including Rocket and Maurice.  Malcolm's family finds a severely wounded Caesar and transports him to his former home in San Francisco. After sneaking back into the settlement to find medical supplies, Malcolm encounters Blue Eyes, Caesar's son. Blue Eyes spare him before learning that his father is still alive and accompanies Malcolm to Caesar. Learning that it was Koba who shot Caesar, Blue Eyes reunites with his father. The trio returns to the community and frees the imprisoned humans and apes. After escorting the apes into the tower, Malcolm finds Dreyfus, who reveals that his men made radio contact with a military base. Malcolm holds Dreyfus and his men at gunpoint to give Caesar enough time to retake command, and Caesar confronts Koba at the top of the tower. In an attempt to kill all the apes, Dreyfus detonates a C4 to destabilize the building, killing himself in the process. Caesar defeats Koba, denounces him as "not ape", and lets him fall to his death.  Malcolm warns Caesar of the approaching human military. Believing that the humans will never forgive the apes for their attack, Caesar orders Malcolm to evacuate with his family for safety before the fighting begins. After Malcolm leaves, Caesar then addresses the apes as they prepare for the upcoming war.