American backpacker friends Gina, John, Stacey, Geraldine, and Phil hike in the woods with their guide Brian in India. When a venomous spider bites Geraldine, the group decides to seek an American doctor, Dr. Lecorpus, who lives with a tribe in the jungle. Dr. Lecorpus treats Geraldine with the help of his brother, who wears a cloth over his disfigured face. While Gina, John, and Phil return to the village in the civilization, Brian and Stacey stay with the natives. They decide to visit a temple in the forest while waiting for Geraldine to recover. However, the two get split up, and Stacey is attacked by a mass of spiders, swarming and covering her in spider webs.  Gina, John, and Phil arrive back at the village and head to the local police station. They meet Sgt. Chadhri, who agrees to investigate the village. Chadhri enters the woods and sees Lecorpus and several of the natives standing near a helicopter. However, Lecorpus' brother catches Chadhri; they take his gun and force him to walk to the village. Chadhri decides to investigate the temple and is attacked by Lecorpus' brother, who chases him deep into the temple.  The other three become worried after Chadhri does not return, and Phil walks to a bigger village while Gina and John return to the woods. They arrive back at the village and witness a strange ceremony. They see Stacey, still wrapped in spider webs, injected with venom and carried off into the temple by Lecorpus' brother. Natives rush and attack Gina and John to save Stacey. Gina finds Stacey, and Lecorpus then appears and tells Gina that Stacey is just paralyzed and not dead. John and Gina run into the temple and get split up.  Meanwhile, Phil discovers a newspaper suggesting Lecorpus illegally harvested organs. Gina and John find Stacey's camcorder and an alive Brian, but he dies shortly after. Gina and John meet up with Chadhri and try to find their way out of the caves. They come across an operation room and discover that Lecorpus, his brother, and the natives are all in on a scheme to harvest travelers' organs. They inject their victim with the venom to prevent the organs from spoiling while being transported. Gina, John, and Chadhri manage to free Stacey and escape the operating room.  Gina, John, Stacey, and Chadhri run through the various tunnels while Lecorpus' brother and the natives pursue them. They start a fire in a tunnel, and Lecorpus' brother gets caught in the fire. Gina, John, Stacey, and Chadhri use spider webs to climb across a massive chasm in order to escape. Chadhri goes first, followed by Stacey, and then Gina. However, Chadhri tells John to wait before climbing on the web because it cannot sustain all their weight. After Chadhri and Stacey make it to the other side, John attempts to get on, but the web snaps, leaving Gina hanging above the chasm and stranding John on the opposite side.  Gina swings to the side of the chasm and throws Lecorpus in when he tries to kill her; spiders swarm and kill him. Gina and Stacey leave with Chadhri, who promises John that he will come back for him. The three escape the temple, but Lecorpus' brother attacks them. Before he can kill Chadhri, a group of police officers led by Phil appears and shoot him dead. Phil reunites with Gina and Stacey, who tell him that Brian and Geraldine are dead. They also inform the police officers that John is still trapped inside, and spiders then attack him.  Sometime later, Gina is seen back in the village. She is visited by Chadhri, whom she tells that Stacey is getting better. He tells her that while John has not been found, he and the other officers are working around the clock to find him. However, John is shown completely encased in spider webs before the film ends.