The Relentless are an aspiring rock band, half from England and half from the US, who all move to Los Angeles to become famous. The band's vocalist, Johnny Faust, lives in Columbus, Ohio with his mother and his girlfriend Gretchen. After moving to Los Angeles they hold auditions for a bassist, and choose a woman, Lily. While leaving a liquor store, some of the members encounter a homeless man who tells them to rely on feeling more than perception. Moments later, the band is accosted by another man who implies he is the Devil and can make them stars if they perform a human sacrifice. Lily tells Johnny that her ex-band member Damien raped her the night she left the band. Johnny learns his mother has breast cancer and cannot afford treatment. Damien insults Johnny's mother, so the band decides to sacrifice Damien. They lock him in a van and set it aflame, but Johnny has a change of heart and lets Damien out. Damien climbs an electrical fence and dies from electrocution.  The Relentless get a record deal and record an album, called American Satan. They go on tour. In Kansas, a bar fight results in the death of a man, and Johnny is arrested. He goes on trial and is acquitted. This inspires The Relentless's fans to confront their bullies, leading to more deaths, all blamed on the band.  Johnny and Gretchen try to maintain their long-distance relationship, but matters are complicated when Johnny and Lily sleep together. At the same time, Ricky overdoses on cocaine and dies. This leads to Leo heavily using alcohol and pills. Gretchen dumps Johnny, and he turns to heroin and sex with Lily to try to cope. A fan's mother gets Johnny to take her teen daughter's virginity; he does, while Dylan has sex with the mother. They later learn that the girl's dad killed himself because of this. Johnny overdoses on heroin and almost dies, but is revived by a paramedic - the homeless man the group encountered outside the liquor store. Johnny goes to rehab. Lily refuses to go to rehab and disappears. American Satan is well-received and tops the charts. The band performs more shows and receive a lot of adoration but also a lot of backlash, leading them to almost quit the music industry.  The band is successful, and Johnny's mother receives treatment for her cancer, which goes into remission. Johnny tries to get back together with Gretchen to no avail. The Relentless land a gig at a music festival but the Devil says that they have to kill a man during their performance, though he intends to make it look like part of the concert. The night of the show, Lily returns. A moment later, the Devil appears in the guise of Johnny's mother's new boyfriend, and when the band goes on stage and performs, Johnny takes the gun and first holds it to his head before shooting and killing the Devil. He is arrested. While in prison, Johnny is visited by the archangel Gabriel - the homeless man. He tells Johnny he has a choice in his future and to go with his feelings. He is also visited by Gretchen who tells Johnny she still loves him. She brings with her a lawyer, Damien's father. The lawyer gets Johnny off on a technicality.