Fourteen-year-old Walter is left by his irresponsible mother, Mae, to live for the summer with his reclusive, bachelor great uncles, Hub and Garth. Despite living on a ramshackle Texas farm, they are said to have a secret fortune amassed from past adventures and are the target of every traveling salesman. They, in turn, sit on their porch with shotguns, shooting at the salesmen.  Walter is given a room in the attic and is not welcomed by his uncles at first, until they realize that Walter's presence annoys other gold-digging relatives. Walter persuades his uncles to try spending some of their money. Packets of seeds to plant a vegetable garden turn out all to be corn. The uncles then order a lion for a hunting target, but end up with a tame, retired circus lioness, who becomes Walter's pet.   While loading fifty-pound bags of Lion Chow, Hub faints and briefly goes to hospital. Later, at a roadside diner, four toughs pull switchblades on Hub, but he easily subdues them. Hub and Garth bring the teens home to patch them up, and find that the elderly lioness has escaped her cage, claiming the cornfield as her new "jungle" home. Hub gives the teens a speech about growing up and being men before sending them home.  A subplot develops around the photograph of a beautiful woman that Walter finds in the attic. Garth tells Walter the story of their past in the French Foreign Legion, during which Hub married an Arab princess named Jasmine, who was promised to a powerful sheikh. After living in constant peril from assassins, Hub spared the sheikh's life after a duel on condition that the manhunt ceased. However, Jasmine later died in childbirth and Hub returned to the French Foreign Legion, until he and Garth retired to their farm, where they are resignedly waiting to die.  Late one evening, Walter trails Garth and discovers that his uncles have a room filled with money underneath the barn. On another night, Mae arrives with her latest boyfriend, a supposed private investigator named Stan; he claims Hub, Garth, and Jasmine were bank robbers and demands the money's location. When Walter chooses to believe Garth's stories instead, Stan pins Walter down and beats him. The old lioness emerges from the cornfield and attacks Stan; awakened by the noise, Hub and Garth find that the animal has died of heart failure defending her “cub”.  The next day, Walter leaves with his mother. Once on the road, Mae explains that Stan will be staying with them to recuperate. Walter asks her to "do something that's best for me for once" and abandons her. While Hub and Garth are delighted to see him back, Walter insists changes must be made: His uncles must involve themselves in his education and live carefully, as he wants them to die of old age.  Seventeen years later, the local sheriff alerts Walter that his uncles have died after a failed stunt in their biplane. Walter returns to the farm and is given his uncles' will, which leaves everything to him. A helicopter bearing the logo  Western Sahara Petroleum touches down near the farm, and a man steps out with his young son, explaining that he heard about Hub and Garth's deaths on the radio. He had recognized the names as the two Americans in tales told to him in his youth by his grandfather, "a very wealthy sheikh". When the man's young son asks Walter if his uncles really lived, Walter confirms, "Yeah. They really lived."