In Cleveland, Ohio, high school senior Karen “Wren” DeSantis' opening narration describes Halloween in Cleveland as a time for its citizens to dress up and be less ashamed of themselves, citing the nickname "the mistake by the lake." Wren's widowed mother, Joy, is dating a 26-year-old named Keevin. Wren has her heart set on college life at New York University. Her friend April has her eyes set on social status, and Wren's nerdy friend Roosevelt has his heart set on Wren. The two girls are surprised when they find they are invited to a Halloween party by local heartthrob Aaron Riley. Unfortunately, on the day Wren is supposed to go to the party, she is commanded by her mother to take her 8-year-old brother Albert trick-or-treating so she can go to a party with Keevin. The party that Keevin invites Joy to turns out to be run by Keevin's friend Nate Brueder. At a haunted house later that night, Wren and April run into Roosevelt and his best friend Peng. Albert meets a convenience store employee named Fuzzy who seeks revenge against Jörgen, a mixed-martial arts fighter, who won the heart of his ex-girlfriend Lara. Roosevelt's parents are revealed to be semi-eccentric pacifistic lesbians.  Wren suspects that Albert might be at a local Captain Chicken restaurant on Euclid Avenue, a fictional pirate-themed fast food chain. Again they arrive too late to find him, almost running him over while fleeing Mike Puglio before he is rescued by Denise, a college girl dressed as a "Galaxy Scout" (a fictional anime character). Remembering Fuzzy's description of Jörgen, Albert stows away in his convertible. Wren, Roosevelt, and Peng drive off looking for Albert, and now April, who later calls from Aaron Riley's party with the false impression that she has found Albert. Wren, Roosevelt, and Peng arrive at the party, and the earlier duel with Puglio gives Peng some level of social acceptance.  Wren receives a phone call from Jörgen, who is holding Albert hostage at his house, and threatens to turn him over to the police for pulling the stunt with Fuzzy, unless she gives him a ransom of $400 in cash, which she doesn't have. After Jörgen gives her his address, Wren desperately runs through the streets of Cleveland trying to find his house. Arriving there and telling Jörgen she doesn't have the money, he calls the police but puts them on hold when Wren finds out that he is a fan of the Beastie Boys, and offers to give him the collectible jacket she inherited from her late father which was left behind by Mike D as a substitute for cash. Jörgen seems interested in her offer, but he calls the police until Fuzzy breaks in to rescue the boy and his older sister by throwing fireworks throughout the house. Jörgen is injured in the explosion.  Wren and Albert visit the cemetery where their father is buried and place a plastic pumpkin with flowers on his grave. Albert thanks Wren for finding and rescuing him, just before their mother picks them up and drives them home. Roosevelt also states that he will get a part-time job at Captain Chicken to raise money for the chicken statue's repairs. Joy then allows Roosevelt and Wren to kiss. Meanwhile, April wakes up to find herself in the arms of Peng, and after looking around for witnesses decides to make out with him again. Fuzzy meets Denise, who asks him out on a date. Fuzzy also reveals that his real name is Manuel. Later, Albert reveals that he secretly has been pulling prank phone calls on both his mother, sister, and his sister's friend for six months, which includes the uploading of a video to Wren's Facebook page, making fun of Wren's bug dance and "explaining rap".