In the realm of Apollon past the garden of four rivers and in the region of Abaddon, there stood an old city named NotCursed, where Apollyon, the master of corruption, constantly monitors his workers.  One day, an employer discovers that an employee is missing, and immediately reports it to his superior. Coming to his home, they discover drawings that are both frightening and reassuring. Christian is there among them, learns that the employee in question is called Faithful, and he leaves for the Celestial City, located beyond the borders.  That very evening, Christian is awakened by a nightmare, he looks at the book he found in Faithful's office. He is utterly amazed by this famous book, he no longer pays any attention to everything that is happening around him. Convinced of what he writes there, he warns his family to flee together from this corrupt city doomed to destruction. Not credulous, his wife laughs and dumps him that this book is just a tale.  Disappointed, because his wife refused to come with him, nevertheless he is determined to take the path that Faithful had followed. Evangelist comes to help him and encourages him to go straight ahead without turning away. On the way, Christian comes across Pliable, who agrees to follow him because he is totally obsessed with his marvelous proposals. Quickly the both men are put to the test, they fall in the swamp of Despondency, Pliable gives up. Christian escapes, saved by “You Called”. The latter informs that hardships await him.  Arrived in a forest, a man with a top hat, looking like a clown, making appear gold coins, silver, precious stones, indicates to Christian the path he has to follow ignoring the advice given by Evangelist. Christian follows his advice, he arrives in a village called Morality where the law [of Moses] reigns, he unfortunately cannot obey it for there are too many. Evangelist comes to his aid, explaining to him that the law cannot lead him to the Celestial City, nor free him. Such remarks only anger the Morality, which wants to overwhelm them both, but fail.  Christian again follows the advice of Evangelist, he continues on his way. He is attacked by bats, he is saved by the Gatekeeper. That very evening, he is led by fireflies to a house where the Interpreter resides. She explains to him that all people who wish to follow the path of light will be protected throughout their peregrination provided they persevere.  On the path of patience, Christian felt unshackled from the burdens. Heralds of the King appear to him and congratulate him that henceforth he belongs to the Celestial City, they give him a new garment. Vigilant invites him to spend a night at his house, introduces him to his four daughters and offers him dinner. The next day, the four girls dress him in armor, in a helmet, they also give him a sword thereon he emerges victorious against Apollyon, prince of corruption.  He meets Faithful and also Evangelist, who explains to them that a great danger awaits them in a fair, nicknamed city of Vanity, and that one of them would shed his blood. Indeed this is what happened, Faithful and Christian were brought to justice, the first was executed, while the other was remanded in custody postponing judgment. While he is there, one of the gaolers, named Hopeful, manipulates his co-gaoler, frees Christian. They meet on the way. They find a shelter that turns out to be a giant's shoe. Both are now prisoners in his dungeon. They realized that the two giants cannot kill them because of their hope. This allows them to get out.  A Shepherd appears to them, letting them know that the Celestial City is well-nigh at their hand. They have to walk together and always fix their gaze on the light of the city. But an old man (Apollyon) hinders their plan, captures them before being freed by a herald of the King. She guides them to the edge of the sea, where the waters form a wall. Hopeful shows Christian that he must enter this water to go to the Celestial City. Christian, although he faces a dilemma because of his family and loved ones, enters it on the advice of Evangelist. In the water, Apollyon tries his ultimate strike to seize the soul of Christian but the light springs, the blood of the Shepherd is shed, Apollyon falls into the depths of the waters.  Christian wakes up, the Shepherd comes to fetch him. He brings him into his resplendent dominions where Faithful and Hopeful are already. They come to welcome Christian.  An epilogue shows Christian's wife, she wakes up and sees a sheet before her bed. Her husband is still alive. Being moved with the letter, she announces it to her children.