In St. Petersburg, Florida, seven-year-old Mary Adler, a mathematical genius, lives with her uncle and de facto guardian, Frank. Her best friend is her 43-year-old neighbor, Roberta Taylor. Frank, a former philosophy professor now boat mechanic, feels strongly that Mary should attend normal primary school so she can attain a “somewhat normal life.”  On her first day of first grade, she shows remarkable mathematical talent, which impresses her teacher, Bonnie Stevenson.  Bonnie tries to ask Frank about it but he tries to pass it off as the Trachtenberg system until Bonnie tricks Mary into completing a college math test, and confronts Frank again. It emerges that Mary's mother, Diane, had been a promising mathematician, dedicated to the Navier–Stokes problem (one of the unsolved Millennium Prize Problems) before committing suicide when Mary was six months old. Mary has lived with Frank ever since.   Despite Mary’s initial disdain for average children her own age and her boredom with their classwork, she begins to bond with them when she brings her one-eyed cat, Fred, for show-and-tell. Later, she defends a classmate from a bully on the school bus, something that Frank feels incredibly proud about.  After the incident the principal, having discovered Mary’s maths talent, encourages Frank to send Mary to a private school for gifted children, offering the opportunity of a scholarship. However, Frank turns it down, based on his family's experiences with similar schools.   The principal contacts Frank's estranged mother and Mary's maternal grandmother, Evelyn.   Evelyn, a former mathematician herself, is of the opinion that people with capabilities such as Mary’s have an obligation to use their talents to further help society and therefore feels that Mary should be specially tutored in preparation for a life devoted to mathematics, much as Diane was. But Frank is adamant that his sister would want Mary to be in a normal school and have the childhood she did not have. Evelyn later sues him for full custody.  In court, while on the stand, its revealed that Evelyn had kept Diane socially isolated, even home schooling her, so she could be primarily focused on mathematics. When Diane’s teenage boyfriend took her on a romantic getaway, Evelyn filed a lawsuit and pressed charges against him. Forcing him to cut ties with Diane, causing her first suicide attempt - something Evelyn angrily argues “was nothing”.   When Frank takes the stand, he admits working at a low-paying job without health insurance.   His lawyer, worried that the judge will side with Evelyn due to her having a better income, health plan and home, encourages Frank to consider taking a deal orchestrated by Evelyn’s lawyer.   Mary would be placed in foster care and attend the private school where Evelyn wants to have her enrolled. The foster parents live 25 minutes from Frank's home, he will be entitled to scheduled visits, and Mary will be able to decide where she wants to live after her 12th birthday.  Mary is devastated at being placed in foster care and her foster father says she refuses to see Frank. When Bonnie sees a picture of Fred up for adoption, she alerts Frank. He retrieves the cat from the pound and learning that Fred was brought in due to allergy issues, realises that Evelyn, who is allergic to cats, is overseeing Mary's education in the guest house of Mary's foster home.  Frank goes to the foster home and, after making up with Mary, reveals to Evelyn that Diane had indeed completed the Navier–Stokes problem after all. But left instructions to Frank to not publish the equation until after Evelyn’s death knowing that it meant everything to her to see Diane solve the problem. Frank offers Evelyn the opportunity to publish Diane's work if she drops her custody case. Evelyn agrees.  The film ends with Mary back in the custody of Frank, returning to public school and socializing with children her age while taking college-level courses.