Illustrator Jeff Vahn is forced into divorce by his wife Maggie, who also fights for sole custody of their daughter Jenny. Failing at his career and distraught at the possibility of losing Jenny, Jeff argues over the phone with Maggie, who is then killed in a hit and run.  After Maggie's funeral, Jeff has recurring nightmares of spirits lurking around the house. Maggie's father, Paul Rivers, prepares to sue Jeff for custody after seeing his tactless treatment of Jenny, who reverts to a state of depression and begins acting strangely. Unable to successfully comfort or help her, Jeff reaches out to an old friend for a small job opportunity at a comic book company. In a trance Jeff draws a peculiar figure, and it is shown that the same figure is watching over Jenny.  Jenny's babysitter, Samantha Nally, begins watching her full-time as Jeff starts his new job. Samantha attempts to be a mother figure to Jenny, who sinks deeper into depression. The house is revealed to be inhabited by spirits who possess some of Jenny's puppet toys, and Jeff keeps entering trances where he draws frightening creatures whom the spirits bring to life. These spirits interact with Jenny, who realizes she is the only one who can see them. But despite his inability to truly see the spirits, Jeff begins to suspect that the ghosts are controlled by Maggie, who is haunting him as punishment for his anger towards her and treatment of Jenny.  After Jenny survives an allergic reaction to her food, Jeff decides to move upstate so she can live closer to Paul. Jeff also earns a promotion at work, and amicably resolves the custody battle with Paul. However, a private investigator contacts Paul with the identity of Maggie's killer, Samantha, who then pushes Paul from the house's second story.  Jeff races home, where the injured Paul reveals the truth to him. Samantha admits that she's in love with Jeff, and killed Maggie to protect him; she also poisoned Jenny's food, believing Jenny was keeping her from getting closer to Jeff. Jeff realizes Maggie's ghost truly has come back for revenge and is leading the other ghosts—however, her revenge is against Samantha, not Jeff. Maggie kills Samantha, and Jenny goes up the attic to talk with Maggie. She slips and Jeff attempts to catch her, but they both free-fall from the attic window. Jeff and Jenny wake up uninjured on the ground, and realize Maggie saved them from the fall. As Maggie's spirit departs, first responders arrive at the house.