Three adolescent friends named Ed, Edd and Eddy (collectively known as "the Eds") opt to flee the Peach Creek cul-de-sac after their latest money-making scheme heavily backfires and leaves it in a state of devastation. This severely wounded their neighbors Jonny, Kevin, Nazz and Rolf, who plan to retaliate violently. After narrowly escaping, Eddy recommends seeking protection from his unnamed older brother. Since Eddy does not actually know where he lives, Edd (called Double D) tries to piece together Eddy's inconsistent facts about him to determine a location. To find the Eds, Jonny takes his wooden board Plank with him on a city bus while Rolf rides on his pig, Wilfred, and Kevin and Nazz travel via Kevin's prized bicycle. While Jimmy and Sarah were not involved or affected by the scheme, they seek to have a picnic and watch the Eds get beaten up, but run into the Kanker sisters — Lee, Marie and May. Upon learning about what the other children plan on doing to the Eds from them, the Kankers set out to save them while taking the duo hostage.  Meanwhile, the Eds are left to wander aimlessly under Eddy's direction. In a cow field, Edd profiles Eddy's brother and reasons that given his con artistry, he would likely be found at a place involving pranks. Ed uses one of his decade-old comic books to suggest visiting the Lemon Brook Gag Factory. Upon arriving, they discover the factory has been shut down, and Edd finds no clues in the office.  After leaving the factory, Eddy claims his brother was once a whaler, so Edd deduces he must live by the sea. They build a boat and ride on it over the river to find him. The river ends in a swamp where their boat is destroyed. Ed and Eddy then prank Edd into believing that they sank to their demises in quicksand. Infuriated, Edd berates Eddy for the prank and his scamming before deciding to face the other kids' wrath. Ed sobs over their damaged friendship while Eddy is initially enraged by this. He soon breaks down crying when realizing he took Edd for granted and takes blame for their predicament, prompting Edd to forgive him, and the Eds continue their adventure.  Elsewhere, Nazz throws Kevin's bicycle into a tree upon losing patience with him prioritizing it over her well-being while Jimmy and Sarah escape from the Kankers and find Wilfred, who abandoned Rolf after growing tired of his abrasive attitude. The Kankers abduct Kevin, Nazz and Rolf before the Eds locate a coastal theme park the next morning called "Mondo A-Go Go", which matches a postcard Eddy has from his brother. They conclude that Eddy's brother works there and find his whale-resembling trailer. Everyone else except for Jonny arrives soon afterwards. Eddy's brother reveals himself and, although he originally seems to be everything that the children imagined, is eventually shown to be physically abusive towards Eddy without reason, leaving everyone appalled. When Edd tries to interfere, Eddy's brother uses his sibling to slam him into the ground, prompting everyone to defend Eddy. Ed soon defeats Eddy's brother by sending his trailer door flying into his face, knocking him out.  Now expressing remorse over his past actions, Eddy tearfully reveals that he lied about his brother and conducted schemes in an unsuccessful attempt to gain admiration and social acceptance. Touched by Eddy's confession and eventual apology, the children forgive the Eds and accept them as their friends. Jonny arrives with Plank afterwards and, without giving anyone a chance to explain what happened, quickly attacks the Eds. In response, the other kids attack and turn against him. Kevin then invites everyone except Jonny and the Kankers over for jawbreakers and they return home together while the Kankers drag Eddy's brother into his trailer. Edd concludes the film and the series by putting a label saying "The End" on the screen. In a post-credits scene, Jonny is enraged over becoming an outcast and vows revenge. However, Plank mentions that no time is left in the film.