11-year-old Leo dreams of being a successful WWE wrestler. His Grandma Denise supports his love of wrestling. Leo's dad, Steve and Denise send him off to school and he rides his bike, where he meets up with his friends. They get bullied by another boy, a teacher intervenes and sends them all to the principal.  After school, the bullies confront and chase him on their bikes, but Leo manages to hide inside a house holding an estate sale. Inside, Leo finds a box with a wrestling mask inside. He takes it home after the man in charge gives him permission. On TV, he sees an ad for an upcoming WWE competition. Later, Leo overhears how his mom left his dad. Also his father needs to pay $20,000 for the mortgage to not lose the house.  Leo tries on the mask, discovering it transforms him: his voice deepens, he takes on a very strong personality and he has super strength. Doing a Google search, he finds the legend of the mask: only a genuinely deserving champion can use its powers.  Leo confronts his bullies, overpowering them using the mask. Erica, a girl he likes, is impressed and they become friends, but he is also punished and sent home from school. Donning the mask and alter ego “Kid Chaos”, Leo decides to audition for the competition. After defeating fellow competitor Smooth Operator in the semi-finals, he reaches the final, against famous wrestler Samson. Leo's fame begins to alienate his friends and Erica. He later realizes and confesses to Denise that he thought the mask would solve all of his problems, but things are only getting worse. Leo apologizes to his friends, and is forgiven.  Samson and his manager switch Leo's mask with a regular one. The competition begins, Steve watching on TV. Samson is brutally beating Leo, when Leo realizes the mask is a fake. Steve rushes to the match. Leo climbs up the cage around the ring to avoid Samson. Seeing Samson is afraid of heights, he dares him to climb, causing him to pass out. Leo jumps down on him, officially winning the match.  Leo gets the $50,000 check and he asks them to pass the wrestling contract with NXT to Smooth, as he is only 11. WWE tells Leo when he is older, there will be a place for him in the organization. Two weeks later, Leo is on the school wrestling team. He has gained self-confidence without the mask and has the opportunity to wrestle his bully with his dad cheering him on from the audience.