Fifteen years after Dante and Randal bought the Quick Stop convenience store, the pair's lives continue much as before, including hockey games on the roof and hanging out with Jay and Silent Bob, who have taken over the former RST Video and turned it into a legal marijuana dispensary. Dante is still grieving over the deaths of Becky and their unborn daughter Grace after they were hit by a drunk driver years prior.  One day, while Elias and his friend Blockchain are trying to sell their new NFT kites, which contain an image of the Buddy Christ, Randal suffers a severe heart attack. Elias disavows Christianity and decides to become a Satanist after blaming his faith for Randal's heart attack. After the surgery, Randal's doctor urges Dante to keep Randal happy while he recovers, and warns that he is also at risk. Randal decides he has wasted his life and needs a new purpose, declaring he will make a movie about his and Dante's lives at the Quick Stop.  Becky's spirit appears to Dante, encouraging him to move on. After a harrowing audition process, Randal decides he will not only write and direct but also star in the film as himself, alongside Dante in a supporting role. Rather than cast actors, they decide to cast their friends and actual customers to play themselves. This includes Jay, Silent Bob, and Veronica, who agrees after a sexual encounter with Dante. Dante takes on the producer role and convinces his ex-fiancée Emma to loan the production $30,000, with Dante's half of the Quick Stop as collateral. Silent Bob is made the cinematographer, deciding to shoot the movie in black-and-white, while Elias and Blockchain are hired as production assistants.  As the shoot for the tentatively-titled Inconvenience continues, Dante grows exasperated with Randal's micromanaging and perceived disregard towards him in the script. After Randal tries to recreate the donkey show that took place at Mooby's, Dante has a panic attack and leaves the set as the location reminds him of Becky. Later, a drunk Dante finally confronts Randal for never respecting him or acknowledging his support over the years, and for forcing him to relive the worst moments of his life. Suddenly, he collapses, suffering a heart attack as well. When Randal decides to leave Dante at the hospital to continue work on the movie, Elias lambastes him for his attitude and reveals Dante's deal with Emma. Consumed by guilt, Randal finishes editing the movie and sneaks back into the hospital with Jay and Silent Bob's help. He shows Dante the finished film, which he has re-edited so that Dante is the main character, declaring that the story was always about him. Dante watches the film with the spirit of Becky, touched by his friend's effort, before he peacefully dies.  Sometime after Dante's funeral, Emma arrives at the Quick Stop to collect the $30,000 she loaned Dante, lest she assume his half of ownership of the store. Blockchain arrives and excitedly reveals that the NFT kites sold out immediately, yielding a profit of a million dollars. Elias, who has joined Randal as his new best friend in Dante's place, pays back Emma. As Blockchain, Jay, and Silent Bob go outside to fly one of the NFT kites, Randal somberly grieves for Dante at the cash register, unknowingly joined by his spirit.  During the credits, director Kevin Smith thanks the audience for watching the movie before reading some narration he cut from the final scene, where it is revealed that Randal continued to make movies until the age of 90, while still working at the Quick Stop.