In dystopian, war-ravaged Panem, Snow family patriarch General Crassus dies in action during the First Rebellion between the Capitol and thirteen Districts. Years later, Crassus' son, Coriolanus, is one of twenty-four Academy students selected to mentor a 10th Annual Hunger Games tribute. Coriolanus determines to earn the Plinth Prize scholarship to restore the Snow name. Games creator and Academy dean, Casca Highbottom, who mistreats Coriolanus, advises mentors to focus on entertaining viewers rather than tributes winning the Games. Coriolanus' wealthy friend and fellow mentor, Sejanus Plinth, resents the Games' cruelty.  Coriolanus is assigned District 12 female tribute, Lucy Gray Baird. During the reaping ceremony, she entices Capitol viewers by singing and slipping a snake into the dress of mayor's daughter Mayfair Lipp. While fellow mentor Arachne Crane taunts her tribute, who then kills her, Coriolanus earns Lucy Gray's trust by riding with her to the Capitol Zoo, bringing her food, and marketing her to Capitol citizens, much to Highbottom's displeasure: he paired Coriolanus with a District 12 tribute to fail.  Coriolanus proposes a sponsorship scheme to Head Gamemaker, Dr. Volumnia Gaul: Capitol viewers donate supplies to tributes via their mentors during the Games to increase viewership. Coriolanus' class partner, Clemensia Dovecote, takes credit for his proposal. Gaul places the proposal into a tank of genetically-modified snakes that attack unfamiliar scents, and forces Clemensia to retrieve it. The snakes bite Clemensia, confirming Coriolanus' authorship.  During a tour of the Games' arena, rebel bombs explode, killing several mentors and tributes. After Lucy Gray saves Coriolanus from falling debris, he gifts her with rat poison to fight with, and tells her of a bomb-caused hole in the arena floor. Several tributes die in the initial bloodbath. Lucy Gray escapes into a service tunnel with fellow District 12 tribute, Jessup. Sejanus sneaks into the arena and mourns his fallen tribute Marcus, a former District 2 classmate. Gaul persuades Coriolanus to retrieve Sejanus. When a tribute attacks them, Coriolanus beats him to death.  President's son Felix Ravinstill dies from his injuries from the rebel bombing. As revenge, Gaul releases her snakes into the arena, killing every tribute but Lucy Gray; earlier, Coriolanus secretly put a handkerchief bearing her scent into the tank. Gaul refuses to declare her the victor until Capitol viewers pressure her. After the celebration, Highbottom confronts Coriolanus with the handkerchief and poison, sentencing him to twenty years' Peacekeeper service in District 8. Coriolanus bribes an officer to transfer him to District 12, and Sejanus volunteers to join him.  In District 12, a hanging inspires Lucy Gray's "The Hanging Tree" song. Peacekeeper trainees Coriolanus and Sejanus visit the Hob bar where Lucy Gray performs with the Covey, a formerly nomadic band; Coriolanus reunites with her. Meanwhile, Sejanus becomes involved in a rebel plot. Coriolanus confronts Sejanus and records his confession using a jabberjay, sending it to Gaul. Coriolanus later finds Sejanus talking to rebel Spruce, Lucy Gray's ex-boyfriend, Billy Taupe, and Taupe's girlfriend Mayfair, leading to confrontation. Coriolanus kills Mayfair and Spruce kills Billy. Sejanus and Spruce are subsequently hanged for treason.  Lucy Gray and Coriolanus escape northwards. Coriolanus accidentally reveals he killed three people; Lucy Gray knows only two. Coriolanus finds the weapons incriminating him of Mayfair's murder hidden in a lakeside cabin. Lucy Gray runs away after realizing she is the only loose end preventing Coriolanus' return. He pursues her and is bitten by a snake she laid as a trap. Disoriented, he shoots his rifle blindly after jabberjays mimick her voice. Her fate is left unknown.  Coriolanus returns to the Capitol, where Gaul reveals she had him honorably discharged and enrolls him at the university. Sejanus' parents, unaware he caused their son's death, make him their heir, funding his education. Coriolanus visits Highbottom, who confesses the Games were never intended to be reality; he came up with the idea while drunk, but Crassus submitted the idea as their partner project. Highbottom believes he is responsible for the bloodshed of the Games, and never forgave Crassus. He blames Coriolanus for ensuring the Games' horrific cruelty will continue for generations. Coriolanus kills Highbottom by slipping poison into his morphling vial. Gaul later trains Coriolanus as a Gamemaker, beginning his rise to power.