Clawdeen Wolf is now a famous monster for saving Monster High from Edward "Eddy" Hyde Jr. She arrives at Draculaura's back to school party with Frankie Stein, and is unhappy about the fame. Deuce Gorgon tells her that's what popularity is like.  On the first day back, everybody is hanging out when the werecat Toralei Stripe makes an entrance after studying abroad in Scaris, France for a year. She opposes both half-monsters and witchcraft at the school, showing her scars on her right arm from witches who'd attacked her in Scaris. Clawdeen stands up to Toralei, but she smirks and leaves.  Clawdeen, Draculaura and Frankie are outside the school when a group of monsters led by Demi Boovais approach Clawdeen. Demi tells her she is also half-monster and Clawdeen is why she came to Monster High. As Draculaura and Frankie walk to class, another new student bumps into Draculaura. He introduces himself as Ellis, another vampire like her. They seem to be mutually interested.  At assembly, the school welcomes the new students, and Headmistress Bloodgood announces that Clawdeen and Toralei are the two candidates running for prefect. Clawdeen wants the post to follow in her mother Selena's footsteps and wants to ensure that witchcraft and half-humans will continue to be allowed at Monster High.  Later that night, Draculaura is practicing magic in the courtyard when Ellis sees her and tells her not to hide it. He also practices witchcraft which is why he came to the school, so they bond over being the only vampires there who practice it.   Later, Clawdeen is alone with Frankie and tells her about her stress from Cleo barraging her with questions on running for prefect, when witches suddenly appear in the room as Draculaura arrives. She scares them away with her super werewolf roar.   After, in Bloodgood's office, Clawdeen, Frankie and Draculaura tell her what happened in their room. Toralei and her friends arrive and tell her they must have come because Draculaura attracted the witches. Clawdeen and her friends confront Toralei to clarify that Draculaura is innocent, but Bloodgood announces she is putting a school-wide ban on all witchcraft.  Ellis reveals himself as a human to Draculaura and convinces her to go with him to meet his mother Zamara, head of the Salem witch coven, to possibly help end the centuries-old feud between them and vampires. As she left a far-from-perfect body double behind, Clawdeen, although jeopardizing the prefect elections, goes to find her in Seattle on a hunch. Heath, Deuce, and Frankie show up to help her bring her back.  Draculaura meets Zamara, the head of the coven, who convinces her to speak at the huge witch conclave the next day. Meanwhile, Apollo Wolf, whose security company is in charge of the company's security, manages to guide Clawdeen to Draculaura. They talk, but she won't leave as she believes she must fight for peace.   Clawdeen and her friends return to Monster High without Draculaura in time for the closing speeches for prefect. Where Toralei spews hate speech, she calls for inclusion. After Draculaura sees Clawdeen's speech in Seattle, she prepares to head back.  However, Zamara appears and explains that Draculaura is her prisoner. As she comes to age at midnight, they are going to use her to cast a mortality curse, destroying all vampires. Draculaura is kept in a monster-repulsing cage and put under a spell to damn all vampires.  Discovering Zamara's plan, Clawdeen, her friends, and Toralei rescue Draculaura in Seattle. Deuce, Heath and Toralei create diversions while Frankie helps short-circuit the entrance doors. Zamara arrives to thwart the rescue, but Ellis disillusioned with his mother for manipulating him, helps hold her off so Clawdeen can free Draculaura.   Clawdeen risks her life to save Draculaura, bending the cage's bars to reach her and break the spell. Losing consciousness, she faces the Grim Reaper but refuses to concede. Clawdeen comes to, having been revived by Frankie and discovering that Draculaura cleaned house. Her father comes, congratulates her, and takes care of the prisoners. Ellis and Draculaura make peace, and she heads back to school.  Back at Monster High, the friends celebrate Draculaura's birthday, then they see that Clawdeen has been elected prefect, finally earning Toralei's respect while bonding over shared witch scars. Deuce takes a year off to find himself only to be snatched by the Grim Reaper, who heads towards Monster High, stating, "The dead must rest. And I will not be cheated again." Frankie then wakes up.