Frank Vega is a Vietnam War veteran who has faced numerous challenges in his life. After returning from war, he discovers that his girlfriend has married someone else and started a family. Struggling to find employment, Frank resorts to selling hot dogs until his customers are taken away by a hot dog van. Left adrift, he gains unexpected fame when he beats up two abusive skinheads on a bus. Nicknamed "Bad Ass," he becomes a celebrated figure, with his face appearing on T-shirts and graffiti. He is even invited on talk shows and offered ride-alongs by the police.  Frank's life takes a turn when his mother, Juanita, passes away, leaving him her house and dog. His best friend and fellow veteran, Klondike Washington, moves in with him and entrusts Frank with a USB flash drive meant for Juanita's safe deposit box. However, Klondike is tragically murdered in a dark alley by two thugs, leaving Frank devastated.  Feeling let down by the police's lack of progress in solving Klondike's murder, Frank takes it upon himself to investigate. He discovers a spent cartridge casing and a pendant with a woman's picture at the crime scene. The pendant leads him to a pawn shop where he learns it belongs to a man named Terence. Returning the pendant to Terence's wife, Frank learns that Terence is playing basketball with friends. After confronting them, Frank discovers that Renaldo might know Terence's whereabouts.  Frank tracks down Renaldo and learns that Terence is with his girlfriend. After finding her at a massage parlor, Frank follows her and breaks into her house. He interrogates Terence about his boss, who ordered Klondike's murder. Frank discovers that Klondike was killed because he possessed the flash drive, which contains information about an oil well project connected to Mayor Williams.  Alongside his quest for justice, Frank saves Amber and her son Martin from Amber's abusive husband. He becomes their friend and offers them shelter while repairing their front door. During a dinner at Amber's house, Frank asks for a matchbook as a memento, but their moment is interrupted by Martin, Jr.  Frank eventually hands the flash drive to Officer Malark and confronts Panther, the drug lord responsible for Klondike's murder. However, Frank is captured, tortured, and subjected to electrocution to reveal the flash drive's location. Despite the pain, Frank refuses to surrender the drive. Panther discovers Frank's address in his wallet and heads there, threatening to harm Amber. Frank arrives just in time to save her and engages in a fight with Panther.  Their battle spills into the front yard, where Amber jumps on Panther's back, buying Frank enough time to recover and defeat him. Panther is arrested, and the news exposes Mayor Williams' involvement in the scandal. Frank, Amber, and Martin find happiness together as they move forward with their lives.