The opening credits begin with a montage of Polaroid photos showing the progress of a Christian couple, working as missionaries on a remote tropical island. Under their supervision, the natives help build a church, But still continue with their Pagan like rituals.  This becomes a problem for the couple, as their young daughter starts participating with the locals. Leading to tensions, and eventually the church burning down.  The film then opens several years later with high-school senior; Toby Burns, undergoing therapy sessions. Following the recent murder of his father, at the hands of a pair of car jackers, his therapist recommends he participate in a behavioural rehabilitation activity program.  Along with other participants, Toby and his group are transported by boat to the same island, where each are dropped off on separate locations. His supervisor Kay, states she will return in three days to retrieve everyone.  Setting up camp near the beach. Toby is immediately off to a bad start. As monkeys steal his food, he is unable to get a camp fire going. Toby also cuts his foot on a discarded tribal mask in the sea water. Toby does eventually gets a fire going, but suffers from vomiting, dehydration. And soon becomes aware that he is not alone before collapsing.  The next morning, Toby awakes to find water left for him, and his foot treated. His saviour is a sixteen year old girl named Madeline, who is adept at survival on the island. She teaches Toby basic survival skills, while Toby tells her about the outside world and all that she has missed out on.  On the night before Toby is to be picked up the coming morning. Madeline becomes annoyed that he is leaving and takes her leave. She warns him however, not to follow her in to the jungle. Otherwise her mother will kill him.  Kay, who has already arrived and is standing by to collect Toby. Goes ashore when she hears him calling out to Madeline. She is attacked by something in the jungle. The next morning, Toby is on the beach, when he spots Kay’s boat, capsized by the shore.  He sees a woman; one of the missionaries, looting the boat for supplies. After going aboard and finding Kay’s dead body. Toby then pursues the woman in to the jungle, and learns she is Madeline’s mother.  He finds what remains of the missionaries settlement, just as Madeline and her mother return. Spotting him, Madeline tells him to head to the east coast for a future meet-up.  Once there, Toby makes use of what Madeline taught him and sets up camp. Madeline then joins him and tells him what little she remembers of her life on the island. Before her mother, or whatever monster she feels is stalking her, killed everyone, including her father.  After Madeline leaves, Toby finds a lighthouse, with a gas powered motor, still intact. Returning to his camp, he encounters Cameron; one of the other group participants. Toby explains his plan to use the lighthouse as a distress signal and alert any nearby ships.  But first, he has to retrieve a canister of gasoline he saw back at the settlement, as well as Madeline.  Upon returning there, Toby is chased by Madeline’s mother. Who is then fatally wounded by a trap Toby had set earlier. However, she reveals that Madeline is really the monster who killed everyone on the island, including her own father and Kay.  Years ago, when Madeline was young. Her parents entered the church to find the locals had performed animal sacrifices to appease a dark malevolent spirit. While they clashed with them over what they deemed a desecration of a holy place. Madeline unattended, approached one of the sacrifices, and was possessed by the spirit.  Transformed in to some feral like demon. She then slaughtered everyone, but spared her mother. Since then, her mother has kept her confined to the island to protect the outside world. She then gives Toby some berry juice that will put Madeline to sleep, before succumbing to her wounds.  Toby returns to camp to find Madeline in her feral form dragging a now dead Cameron through the forest. He watches her transform back to herself, but she is completely oblivious to what she has done.   She is overjoyed when she learns her mother is now dead. Hoping to finally leave the island. As she attempts to seduce Toby, he sucker punches her and forces the berry juice down her throat before binding her.  Toby then gets the lighthouse working, that soon draws the attention of a coastal patrol boat. But he is confronted in the lighthouse by the feral Madeline. He manages to lock her inside while using the remaining gasoline to set it on fire.  Toby then makes it to the beach and swims out to the boat, but is attacked by Madeline. The next morning, the captain asks what appears to be Toby with a blanket draped over him if there is anyone else still on the island. It is in fact Madeline.