U.S. Army veteran Alicia West returns to her hometown of New Orleans, where she joins the city's police department and is partnered with the easygoing Kevin Jennings. Their beat includes the deprived slum neighborhood where West grew up, and during one patrol she meets an old friend, Milo "Mouse" Jackson, who now works as a convenience store clerk. However, he acts as if he doesn't know her, as the community is deeply distrustful of the police.  In order for Jennings to get home to date-night with his wife, West takes his place in a double shift with another patrolman, Deacon "Deek" Brown. During their shift he gets a call on his personal phone and drives to a derelict power station, ostensibly to meet an informant named Zero; when they arrive, he orders West to wait in the car while he heads in alone. Soon afterward, West hears gunfire coming from the building and rushes in to help, wearing a bulletproof vest fitted with a body camera, only to stumble upon Brown and two narcotics detectives, Terry Malone and Smitty, executing three unarmed drug pushers in cold blood after a botched drug deal. Malone attempts to explain away the incriminating situation, but Smitty panics upon seeing West's bodycam and shoots her. She is protected by her vest but stumbles backward onto a weak section of flooring and falls several stories.  Despite being badly injured in the fall, West manages to escape, with Malone, Smitty and Brown in pursuit. She flags down a passing squad car and asks for help from the two patrolmen inside, but quickly realizes that they are also part of Malone's network of corrupt cops, forcing her to flee again. She eventually finds sanctuary in the store where Mouse works, though he is at first reluctant to help and considers turning her over to her pursuers. Unsure who in the police department she can trust, West calls the off-duty Jennings and asks him to give her a lift to a police station so that she can upload her bodycam footage to the police mainframe and thereby get incontrovertible evidence against Malone and his cohorts on the record. However, during the drive Jennings inadvertently reveals that he already knew Malone was crooked, and West, realizing that he intends to set her up, slugs him, run over her pursuers with his pick up truck,and leaves him handcuffed to the steering wheel.  Malone frames West for the shootings at the power station; drug kingpin Darius Tureau, whose nephew Zero was one of the victims, puts out a hit on West. Hunted by both the police and Darius' gang, West is again forced to seek shelter from Mouse, this time at his apartment. He takes her in, but his neighbor tips off the gangsters, who try to kill her. She manages to escape, but Mouse is captured. Unwilling to leave Mouse to his fate, West surrenders to Darius, explaining that she has proof of her innocence in the form of her bodycam footage. Darius has his computer expert hack the bodycam and learns the truth.   Before Darius can act on this revelation, however, the police raid the apartment block. In the confusion of the raid Smitty kills Brown (in revenge for an earlier spat over who was to blame for the fiasco at the power station) and is then killed himself by West, while Malone kills Darius and most of his gang and begins searching the block for West. Knowing that she cannot escape, West gives the bodycam and her jacket to Mouse, who with this disguise is able to slip through the police cordon, steal Malone's car, and race to the police station, where he uploads the bodycam footage to the mainframe.  Back at the apartment block, Malone manages to corner West, leading to a hand-to-hand struggle which eventually takes them out onto the courtyard in front of a crowd of local residents. West manages to get hold of Malone's gun but is forced to drop it when armed police arrive to break up the fight. However, at that moment the precinct captain, having seen the vital bodycam footage, radios the SWAT team and orders them to stand down. Malone tries to kill West with his gun, but he is shot and incapacitated by Jennings, West's repentant partner.  The wounded Malone is arrested and charged for the murders of the three drug dealers, while West's name is cleared, earning her the respect both of her fellow police officers and of her old neighborhood. Sometime later, she visits her mother's grave with Mouse. Mouse tells her he owes her his life and kisses her on the forehead in thanks, and the two leave together.