In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, a police officer is investigating a suspicious van when he is suddenly attacked by zombies.  In NAS Oceana, Virginia Beach, Virginia, members of SEAL Team Six are conducting a training exercise as well as training their newest member, Petty Officer AJ Prescott who is replacing a fallen SEAL who was killed in a operation near the Pakistan border. After the training exercise, AJ returns home where it is revealed that his wife Emily is pregnant with their first son, as well as being indecisive on a name.  Back in Baton Rouge, Reporters Amanda and Dave are at a press conference hosted by Vice President Bentley in the State Capitol Building. As the press conference concludes, VP Bentley with members of his administration exit the building when a hordes of zombies begin attacking and infecting civilians around the area, forcing the VP to retreat back into the building.  Following the attack, the SEALs are called in and informed on the situation going on where it is revealed that a distress call was sent out before losing communication. The SEAL team led by Lieutenant Pete Cunningham enter into the city via HALO. While searching the State Capitol Building, the SEALs eventually find Bentley, along with other survivors including Amanda and Dave.  CIA agent Stacy Thomas informs Commander Sheer that the situation is actually a biological attack and that she has an asset on site that could potentially reverse it but also need extraction, leaving the SEALs with the task.  Margaret, one of Bentley's staff hides the fact that she has been bitten in order to avoid being left behind. Just before the helicopter arrives, the zombies attack the SEALs and the survivors, and Chief Petty Officer Travis was killed in the process.  As the helicopters fly off, Margaret turns into a zombie and attacks, causing the helicopter to crash. The SEALs, set out to extract agent Thomas' asset with Amanda and Dave following. The SEALs make it to their objective point where they meet Larry, a security guard, and leads them to where there need to go. While making their way to the objective and continue fighting hordes of zombies, AJ is bitten so he Amanda his sidearm for when he turns. The SEALs locate Rebecca, Thomas' asset but before they leave, she needs a sample from one of the zombies in order to produce a vaccine. Sheer orders the blockade of any passage that leads out of the city and bridges to be blown up to avoid the infection to spread across the country.   En route to the extraction point, Dave is killed. Having a sample from one of the zombies, the team prepares to leave but not before spotting AJ and Amanda outside, Carl ask Pete to let him go after him in which Pete grants. Carl, reaches to AJ and Amanda, but are attacked by zombies, so Carl stays back and holds them off, giving AJ and Amanda enough time to get to the helicopter with the remaining SEALs.  The remaining survivors board the helicopter, and AJ reveals to Pete that he is infected, insisting at staying behind. Pete tells him to get on the chopper saying he isn't leaving him behind again and that the scientist may have the cure, AJ complies and boards the chopper. As chopper flies away, missiles strike the city.  At the United States Capitol, agent Thomas is meeting with Senators regarding the outbreak revealing that AJ along with the other SEALs are immune to the infection due to given shots that changes their molecular structure making them immune. AJ, finally having return home, reunites with Emily. AJ finally decides on a name for his son, and names him Carl.