Late one night in 1814, a young Mohawk woman named Okwaho or "Oak" (Kaniehtiio Horn) and one of her lovers, Calvin, gets into an argument with her mother Wentahawi (Sheri Foster) over whether her neutral tribe, who are being violently slaughtered by new Americans, should get involved in the War of 1812. Her two lovers — a Mohawk warrior named Calvin (Justin Rain) and a British soldier named Joshua (Eamon Farren), one of whom is the father of her unborn child — push for retaliation, which ultimately leads to Calvin sneaking off later that same night to light a nearby American encampment on fire, killing 22 sleeping American soldiers.  Six soldiers and their civilian translator Yancy (Noah Segan) escape from the fire and, seeking their own revenge, track down the trio the next morning. A skirmish occurs, which results in the death of Wentahawi and the American Commander, Colonel Charles Hawkes (Jack Gwaltney). A power-hungry and brutal subordinate, Captain Hezekiah Holt (Ezra Buzzington), takes control of the Americans and demands violent retribution. Chasing Oak and the two men, the Americans capture, torture, and kill Calvin at the cost of more Americans being killed, including Holt's son Myles (Ian Colletti). When Oak and Joshua are finally captured at a desolate French-Canadian mission  (where Holt and his men have already murdered Oak's uncle and cousins), Holt kills Joshua with his sabre and shoots Oak in the chest, seemingly killing her. The remaining Americans then leave to return to their base at Fort George.  Oak survives the injury, shaves her head into a bloody Mohawk, and constructs a makeshift suit of armor out of remains of a pregnant deer and its unborn fawn. She stalks the last three Americans (Holt, Yancy, and Private Lachlan Allsopp (Jonathan Huber)) through the darkening forest, killing Yancy and Allsopp before revealing herself to Holt. He becomes disoriented and, through dream-like supernatural means, ends up back at his burnt-out camp. Having abandoned his pistol and sword in the forest, he and Oak fight hand to hand. She finally kills Holt by throwing him onto the burnt remains of a tree, impaling him through the heart. Oak, severely injured, walks away from his corpse and, as she leaves, is witnessed by a Mohawk family, who look upon her like a deity.