Dr. Rebecca Church (Heidi Johanningmeier) has devoted her life to suicide prevention after her mother killed herself when Rebecca was nine. After Rebecca's new fiancée Gabriel Weeks (Colin Egglesfield) is kidnapped, Rebecca finds a photo album entitled "Gabriel Was Saved." The police inform Rebecca that the perpetrator is a serial killer dubbed "The Savior," who stalks and photographs his victims for 100 days before kidnapping and executing them. Detective Jack Byers (Yancey Arias) informs Rebecca that the Savior is targeting people who have previously attempted suicide. Rebecca tells Jack that Gabriel attempted suicide after his wife and daughter died and came into her clinic for help. The next day, Gabriel asks Rebecca out, beginning a fast romance and subsequent proposal.  Rebecca discovers the Savior is a former suicide prevention colleague of hers named Victor Quinn (Gideon Emery) who blames himself for patients who killed themselves despite his efforts. Wracked with guilt, Victor shot himself and Rebecca assumed he was dead. The police discover that Victor recently applied for jobs as a suicide prevention counselor, proving he is alive. Rebecca confirms Gabriel had called a suicide prevention line, confirming how Victor is finding victims.  In her old files, Rebecca finds Victor's contact information and calls as he is driving with an unconscious Gabriel. Victor says he survived the gunshot, but was in a coma for 100 days, tortured by visions of dead patients. When Victor awoke, he met a suicidal woman named Barbara Roberts, who became his first victim. The police show Rebecca photo albums of Barbara and other victims who all had been stalked for 100 days. Victor calls Rebecca back, asking about Gabriel's personality before killing him. Rebecca learns that all of Victor's victims had recovered in the 100 days before he murdered them. Victor subdues Jack at the prevention clinic and chases Rebecca who escapes. Later, Rebecca admits to Jack that she had attempted suicide in her past, which seemingly explains why Victor is stalking her now.  Victor emails Rebecca recordings of phone calls between himself and Gabriel, proving he was counseling Gabriel throughout their relationship. Victor calls and taunts her by telling her the location of Gabriel's diary. From reading Gabriel's diary, Rebecca learns his wife and daughter died in a tragic swimming accident, leading to Gabriel's multiple suicide attempts. Unable to go through with it, he called a suicide prevention hotline. Victor picked Gabriel up and forced him at gunpoint to look at the photo albums of the previous victims who were happy. Victor explains the true nature of his philosophy: He offers to painlessly kill Gabriel in 100 days, while Victor takes photos to capture the "joy" he believes he is bestowing upon the suicidal. Rebecca learns that all of Victor's victims are, in fact, willing participants. Gabriel agreed to Victor's deal, but impulsively called Rebecca so he could "find love again."  Horrified by the revelation of the deal between Victor, Gabriel, and all of the other victims, Rebecca takes sleeping pills, and barely survives after being taken to a hospital. Rebecca tells Jack they will likely never catch Victor because he is providing a service that suicidal people want. Victor sneaks into the hospital, taunting Rebecca with details of Gabriel's decision, and offering to make her his next victim of assisted suicide. Upon release, her mental condition deteriorates further and Rebecca calls Victor to seemingly accept his offer.  However, Rebecca instead shoots Victor, who dies. Rebecca leaves evidence of her complicity at the murder scene for Jack, who decides not to pursue her. Rebecca drives away, still struggling but confident in her resolve to never kill herself.