Will Stronghold lives with his superhero parents, Steve Stronghold / The Commander and Josie DeMarco-Stronghold / Jetstream, in Maxville. Will is anxious about attending his parents' alma mater, Sky High, a school located on a secret floating campus because he secretly has not developed any superpowers yet.  On their first day, he, his best friend Layla Williams, and the other freshmen are harassed by seniors Speed, Lash, and Penny Lent. They also meet technopath Gwendolyn "Gwen" Grayson; a popular senior who informs them of some simple school rules and who Will instantly falls for. Additionally, Will is assigned to the "Hero Support" curriculum and becomes a sidekick due to his lack of powers, though Layla joins him in protest of the school's two-track education system.  Unaware of what happened to his son, Steve shows Will his hidden trophy room, the Secret Sanctum. He expresses particular fondness for the "Pacifier", a weapon he took from his presumed dead arch-nemesis Royal Pain 16 years earlier, while failing to notice a hidden camera in a separate trophy watching them.  Though he befriends his fellow sidekicks, Will comes into conflict with pyrokinetic student Warren Peace, whose supervillain father was imprisoned by Steve. In the ensuing fight, Will develops his father's super-strength. Upon being transferred to the Hero curriculum, Will spends more time with Gwen and her friends, ignoring Layla and the sidekicks. Layla later confides to Warren at the Chinese restaurant where he works that she has a crush on Will. Layla and Will were supposed to meet at the restaurant for dinner; but he stands her up when Gwen comes over to invite Will's parents as honored guests to the Homecoming dance, and they spend the evening together.  On the day before the dance, Gwen tricks Will into throwing a party at his house and has Speed secretly steal the Pacifier. Layla tries investigating the party but falls for Gwen's lies that Will knows about her feelings for him and is too polite to reject her. As Layla leaves in tears, Will breaks up with Gwen for her treatment of Layla and refuses to attend the dance at all. The Pacifier is also discovered missing, further distressing Will. While looking through his father's yearbook, Will sees a student who resembles Gwen named Sue Tenny. He remembers his parents saying earlier during his evening with Gwen that Tenny disappeared right before graduation, sparking rumors that she was recruiting villains at the school. Assuming Tenny became Royal Pain and Gwen is her daughter, Will heads to Sky High to stop her with help from bus driver Ron Wilson.  At the dance, Gwen reveals herself as Royal Pain. With Speed, Lash, and Penny's aid, she captures and de-ages students and staff, including Will's parents. Gwen herself was de-aged during the battle with Will's parents where The Commander obtained the Pacifier. She plans to raise the babies as supervillains as revenge for the school naming her a sidekick due to her powers not being understood at the time. After reconciling with Layla, Will teams up with her, Warren, and the other sidekicks to rescue the captive babies and defeat Gwen's allies, during which Will develops Josie's flight power. Though Gwen sabotages the school's anti-gravity drive, the sidekicks successfully restart it, and Will returns the school to the sky.  With Sky High saved, Gwen and her allies are given detention while her captives are restored to their proper ages. Ron Wilson falls into a vat of toxic waste and becomes a superhero. Will becomes best friends with Warren and enters into a relationship with Layla.