Twenty-six years after the first film, Dexter Reed has quit Good Burger in the hopes of becoming a successful entrepreneur, but his invention ideas turn out to be failures. His latest invention, a spray that can make any material flame-retardant, backfires as he attempts to showcase the material on his own house in a demonstration for investors, including Mark Cuban, that ends up burning it down. Left without a home and business, Dexter looks to move in with his sister Charlotte, but she refuses as she is one of his investors. He then calls Ed, who still works at Good Burger and agrees to let him stay at his home.  Dexter visits Good Burger to find numerous new employees: twins Cindy and Mindy, the elderly Ruth, Ed's son Ed 2, who looks and acts exactly like Ed, and Dexter's niece Mia, Charlotte's daughter who wants nothing to do with Dexter. The restaurant has a new manager the teenage Mr. Jensen. In addition to working as the cashier, Ed is now the owner due to his love of the restaurant. The only familiar employee is Fizz, whom Ed had accidentally left in the freezer for 22 years and is thawed out. At Ed's home, Dexter meets Ed's family: his wife Edie and their numerous other children who look like Ed and are named after condiments. Dexter is shocked to find that Roxanne, who previously tried to seduce Ed for the recipe for his sauce for Mondo Burger, now works as their nanny.  Dexter decides to work at Good Burger again while considering his next entrepreneurial venture. When he pitches his permanent ice idea to Mia, she laughs it off. Meanwhile, Ed has been hounded by Cecil McNevin, a lawyer for the conglomerate MegaCorp, to turn Good Burger into a global franchise, but Ed is uncertain. MegaCorp sends a pair of goons to force Ed into signing the agreement, but Ed's natural clumsiness gets them hurt. Cecil tries to appeal to Dexter, explaining their intent is to expand Good Burger but not to take it away from Ed and are planning to give the employees big raises. Dexter considers it based on the financial benefit and then brings Ed to lunch with Cecil to explain the deal and they both agree to sign.  At the franchise launch party, Cecil reveals that the flagship store is being shut down with their employees being fired as mandated by the contract, which Dexter and Ed had failed to read before signing. With everyone turning against Dexter, he takes Ed to MegaCorp headquarters to demand they reinstate the flagship restaurant and rehire the employees. They meet with the CEO Katt Bozwell, the sister of former Mondo Burger owner Kurt Bozwell who wants revenge on Good Burger after sending Kurt away to prison. She is planning to rebrand the restaurant Mega Good Burger and has plans to replace all employees with robot versions of Ed. After destroying the Good Burger car, MegaCorp sends them home in a self-driving delivery car which Katt sends out of control to get rid of them. Dexter forces the car to drive in a circle until it runs out of power.  Lamenting his failures, Dexter gets Ed to rally the Good Burger employees to stop the launch of Mega Good Burger. They plan to infiltrate MegaCorp headquarters so Mia, a computer expert, can shut down the machines before the launch. While Dexter, Ed, and Mia infiltrate the building, the other employees create a distraction, but their ruse is uncovered. Dexter and Ed get separated from Mia and find the control room while Mia is trapped on a conveyor belt. Dexter goes off to find Mia, leaving Ed to shut down the restaurants. Dexter saves Mia, but they are captured and taken to the control room where Ed is also taken. As Katt gives the first demonstration on national television, the robotic Ed throws food at her, followed by the other machines shooting food at everyone at every location around the world. Ed had decided reprogramming the machines to go haywire would be better.  In the aftermath, MegaCorp is shut down and Ed is given back ownership of the original Good Burger. Charlotte comes to visit Dexter and Mia and Dexter is allowed to apologize to her. Ed and Ed 2 reveal to Dexter that they figured out how to make permanent ice and Good Burger successfully sells it to Mark Cuban, making $10 million.