In 1974 Portland, Oregon, a four-year-old Tonya Harding is forced to ice-skate by her abusive mother, LaVona Golden. As Tonya grows up, her parents take her out of school to focus on her skating career as she trains under coach Diane Rawlinson. Tonya's father leaves her with her abusive mother. Tonya rapidly becomes one of the best figure skaters in the United States, but is held back by her "white trash" reputation, homemade costumes, and unconventional choice of performance music (e.g., ZZ Top). At 15, she begins dating 18-year-old Jeff Gillooly. They marry, but Jeff becomes abusive. When LaVona scorns Tonya for putting up with it, Tonya blames LaVona for raising her badly.  After a dispute with Diane, Tonya fires her and hires Dody Teachman as her new coach. Tonya becomes the first American female figure skater to complete two triple Axel jumps in competition. At the 1992 Winter Olympics, Tonya fails to stick her landings and finishes fourth. Defeated, she takes a job as a waitress, but Diane convinces her to train for the 1994 Winter Olympics. She performs well but still gets poor scores. She confronts a judge about her scores; he explains that Tonya's image is not wholesome enough. Tonya approaches her mother for help, but is scolded and rebuffed, leading Tonya to reluctantly ask Jeff for support. On the day of her November 1993 competition at the Northwest Pacific Regional Championships in Portland, Tonya receives a death threat and chooses not to compete. Realizing that he can sabotage Tonya's competition, Jeff instructs his friend Shawn Eckardt to send death threats to Tonya's rival, Nancy Kerrigan. Tonya makes a phone call trying to locate Nancy's training arena and her practice times. Shawn hires two inept crooks to injure Nancy after a practice session in Detroit. In January 1994, Shawn's henchmen strike Nancy's knee and she cannot compete at the next day's National competition. The hired henchmen are arrested.  Shawn's bragging quickly leads the FBI to him. He blames Jeff, who is horrified to learn that Shawn instigated the entire affair in order to draw attention. Tonya qualifies for the Olympic team, but realizes she will be found guilty by association. She goes to the FBI and reports what Jeff and Shawn did, but they show her interview transcript to Jeff after his arrest, and he races home to confront her. She briefly speaks to Jeff from behind a locked door, then climbs out the window, leaving him for good. Jeff later implicates Tonya by saying she knew beforehand about the attack.  LaVona visits Tonya and offers her kind words; however, when she asks if Tonya had prior knowledge of the attack, Tonya realizes that LaVona is wearing a wire and throws her out. Jeff, Shawn, and the henchmen are charged, and Tonya's hearing is postponed until after the Olympics. Tonya finishes eighth and Nancy wins the silver medal. When Oksana Baiul edges Nancy out for the gold and the first-ever Olympic medal for independent Ukraine, Tonya accuses Nancy of being a poor sport. Tonya avoids jail but is banned from competitive figure-skating for life. Heartbroken, she begs the judge to give her jail time instead of taking away the one thing she knows how to do; the judge refuses.  Jeff acknowledges that he ruined Tonya's career. He changes his name, opens a hair salon, divorces, and remarries. LaVona moves to Washington state and has no contact with Tonya. Tonya remarries, divorces, takes up professional boxing, and becomes a landscaper, house painter, and deck builder. She now lives happily with her third husband and their seven-year-old son. Text at the end states that Tonya wants people to know that she is a good mother.