Seven-year old Sang-woo (Yoo Seung-ho) is taken to the Korean countryside to stay with his 78-year-old mute, but not deaf, grandmother (Kim Eul-boon) while his mother searches for a new job in Seoul.   Sang-woo, a spoiled city boy, is unimpressed by the unsophisticated nature of his poor grandmother's home, which has neither electricity nor running water. He acts rudely to his grandmother, ignoring her at times and calling her a byungshin, or "retard," at others.   Sang-woo continues to attempt to acclimatize to his unfamiliar environment. One of the grandmother's neighbors is a hard-working country boy who attempts to become friends with Sang-woo, but is rebuffed. The other is a young girl who Sang-Woo is enamored by, but she is more interested in the country boy.  Meanwhile, Sang-woo's grandmother is patient and hardworking, spending her time caring for her melons and attempting to care for Sang-woo despite his disdain. Sang-woo's Game Boy runs out of batteries so he asks his grandmother for money for new ones. But she is poor and has none. But when she has none, in an effort to coerce her, Sang-woo insults her, throws away her shoes, breaks one of her vases, and draws graffiti on her house walls.   When this ploy fails to extract money from his grandmother, Sang-woo steals her ornamental hairpin to trade for batteries. He attempts to trade the silver hairpin at a local shop but the shopkeeper, a friend of his grandmother's, hits him on the head and sends him home.  Sang-woo complains about eating home-cooked food and demands his grandmother provide him with Kentucky Fried Chicken. In a well-intended but misunderstood attempt to please him, she purchases a live chicken from the market and prepares a home-made boiled chicken dish for Sang-woo. When Sang-woo sees it he becomes upset and cries. The next morning, his grandmother becomes ill. Sang-woo serves her the remaining chicken while caring for her. He also returns his grandmother’s hairpin.   One day, Sang-woo gets up early and goes with his grandmother to the market where he sees how hard his grandmother persuades passers-by to buy her vegetables. After a long day at the market she takes Sang-woo to a shop and buys him noodles and new shoes. When they are about to board the bus home, Sang-woo asks his grandma to buy him a Choco Pie. She trades a melon for several Choco Pies for Sang-woo. However, when they are about to board the bus back to their home, Sang-Woo tells her he wants to ride alone as the girl he likes is also on board. The grandmother tries to get Sang-Woo to take the rest of the produce with him but he refuses. Sang-woo reaches home well before his grandmother, and feels remorseful when he realizes that his grandmother has had to walk back from town carrying their purchases.   Sang-woo gradually develops sympathy towards his grandmother and their relationship begins to deepen. As she is unable to read or write, he starts to make some simple greeting cards to him to express his love and gratitude. so she has some letters from him. His overall attitude improves and he becomes more humble, eventually apologizing to the neighborhood boy and seeking his friendship. Finally Sang-woo's mother returns, and takes him back to Seoul. His depth of feeling for his grandmother is revealed when the bus leaves and he leaps to the back window to wave his tearful farewells. The film closes with the grandmother continuing to live alone in the thatched-roof house but with the letters of love from her grandson.  An ending credit notes that the film is dedicated to all grandmothers around the world.