A former cult leader escapes the electric chair and returns as a supernatural serial killer named Reaper, wreaking havoc on a small county and targeting those he believes to be sinners.  Natalie, an attractive hitchhiker, gets picked up by alcoholic salesman Bill, but his car breaks down and they wind up at a motel. Bill and Natalie check in as newlyweds and get intimate. She spikes his cup of Jack Daniels with a sleeping pill, ties him up, and takes his wallet and car keys. The Reaper kills Bill with a scythe. Natalie calls her mother and finds out that her mother needs money for her surgery, or else the bank will cancel her hospice. Natalie says to her that she will get the money and pay for the operation.  She stops in at a diner. Rob, a mob boss, realizes that his young protege Brad has been botching his tasks. Rob gives Brad a final chance and throws him some money to finish up a pending deal. After witnessing Brad tip a waitress handsomely, Natalie sets her sights on him, first tampering with his wheels, then running him over. Feigning concern, she runs out of the car and offers him a ride. Some sexual foreplay ensues, but she convinces him to get her a drink from a liquor mart, then zooms off with his money and gun.  Natalie finds out that Brad is a drug mule, and his dealer, truck driver Jack, is at the same motel she stayed at with Bill. Two hit men enter the motel and are killed by the Reaper. The motel owner tries to rape her when she tries to call the police. The Reaper kills him. Jack and Brad decide to help Natalie. A policeman named Banks arrives and takes them into custody. The Reaper lures Banks to follow him with a shotgun. Rob, fed up with Brad's inability to close the deal, goes after him. Natalie and the others are locked in a supply closet for their safety. After searching the motel, Banks is killed by the Reaper. The trio escape from the supply closet, and decide to work together to fight the Reaper.   They try to escape in Jack's truck, but she removed the distributor cap. Brad and Natalie decide to put their differences aside and locate the money and the drugs. Brad is cornered by Rob, but Natalie drops a fire extinguisher on Rob's head. Rob survives and slaps Natalie around. Brad kills him with his own knife. Jack pulls up in the truck. Brad shoots Jack, intending to take the money and the drugs for himself and strand Natalie as payback for robbing him earlier. He is killed by the Reaper.  Natalie is captured by the Reaper, then taken to a church where he brings his victims. He starts to torment her, planning to send her to hell. Jack (who survived his gunshot wound) returns and drowns the Reaper in a bucket of water, saving Natalie's life. Jack tells Natalie to start her life all over before dying. She calls her mother to let her know she is on her way to see her. Natalie takes off in Jack's truck, then picks up a female hitchhiker who asks about Natalie's story. She smiles, asking how much time she has got.  The Reaper survived and rises to his feet, on his way to continue reaping.