While Wayne sleeps in their parked car, Keaton and Robin don masks and sneak into a house to kidnap Gordie, who is asleep in his room. When Gordie puts up a fight, Robin knees him in the crotch and Keaton hits him with a dose of ether. The kidnappers throw the unconscious Gordie into the trunk of the car and drive off.  The next day and it is revealed that Gordie, Keaton, Robin, and Wayne are longtime best friends from college and have reunited for Gordie's bachelor party in Red River, Kentucky. They plan to visit all their favorite distilleries along the Bluegrass Bourbon Trail and find the one distillery they could never locate in college – Arcadia. When they discover their favorite distillery has been turned into a winery, Gordie wanders off to a small antique shop. There he learns the legend of the Bullitt Treasure, buried Prohibition money rumored to be hidden somewhere in Bullitt County. It is also revealed that Gordie is a recovering alcoholic, sober now for almost ten years.  Gordie convinces his friends they should ditch their plans and look for buried treasure, and the four friends set up camp deep in the woods of rural Kentucky. They spend several days digging and hanging out by the campfire, drinking and getting high and singing.  Their adventure is interrupted by an elderly couple, introduced as Mr. and Mrs. Hitchens, who invite the campers back to their nearby house for a home-cooked meal. Keaton discovers their name is actually Bullitt, and the husband accuses the friends of stealing his family's treasure. As the situation escalates, Gordie grabs a rifle off the wall and kills Mr. Bullitt, then locks Mrs. Bullitt in the chicken coop. As Gordie, Keaton, and Wayne clean the house, Robin shoots and buries Mrs. Bullitt.  Panicked and exhausted, the friends race to tear down their camp and remove all trace of their expedition, but Gordie wanders back to the house and begins drinking Mr. Bullitt's bourbon stash, lapsing into an unhinged version of himself. During the confrontation that follows, it is revealed that Keaton had, in fact, found the treasure and was keeping it from the other three. Gordie pulls the pistol on Keaton, but Robin pepper sprays him first, and in a panic, he fires off four shots. Keaton is hit in the femoral artery and crawls off into the woods. Gordie leaves the pistol and stalks off after Keaton, with Wayne in tow. Robin grabs the pistol and heads after Gordie. Keaton manages to stop Robin before she shoots Gordie, and she realizes Keaton desperately needs medical attention. She leaves the gun with Keaton and hurries off to find help. Gordie soon locates Keaton, takes the gun, leaves Keaton for dead, and begins hunting Robin.  Through a series of flashbacks from college, it is revealed that Wayne has actually been dead for ten years, having been hit by Gordie who was drunkenly driving Keaton and Robin home from a night of partying. The friends buried the corpse and swore each other to secrecy. Unable to cope, Gordie has been seeing Wayne ever since, the embodiment of his guilt.  As Robin tears through the forest, she falls down an embankment into a tangle of barbed wire and Gordie catches up to her. He attempts to shoot her, but there are no bullets in the gun. Gordie is shot in the back by Mrs. Bullitt, whose life Robin had spared the previous night. Robin is left to struggle out of the barbed wire on her own, and with her last bit of strength, she manages to find the Arcadia Distillery.  The film ends with a flashback to a month after Wayne was killed, the three friends sitting in a bar uncomfortably trying to live a normal life after what they've done. The last shot is Wayne appearing to Gordie for the first time.