Agent Valentina Valencia of Interpol's fashion division examines the expressions of recently assassinated pop singers' last images and believes they match Derek Zoolander's signature look, "Blue Steel". A flashback reveals that the Derek Zoolander Center For Kids Who Can't Read Good collapsed, killing Derek's wife Matilda Jeffries and injuring Hansel McDonald two days after the events of the first film. Derek later lost custody of his son, Derek Zoolander Jr., and announced his retirement from modeling and subsequent reclusion.  Derek now lives alone in "extreme northern" New Jersey. Billy Zane visits and gives him an invitation to the House of Atoz fashion show by the "Queen of Haute Couture", Alexanya Atoz, and persuades him to return to a regular lifestyle in order to regain custody of his son. In the "uncharted Malibu territories", Hansel is informed by his orgy that they are all pregnant and that he is the father. He is later given the same invitation by Zane.  At the fashion show, Derek and Hansel are surprised to find that the ever-changing fashion world is now dominated by the likes of Don Atari and the non-binary All. They are put on the runway in "Old" and "Lame" outfits and are doused by a large bucket of prunes. Afterwards, Alexanya congratulates them on their performance.  After reuniting, Derek and Hansel are tracked down by Valentina, who asks them to help Interpol uncover who is behind the assassinations. With Valentina's help, Derek discovers his son is residing at a local orphanage. They find him, but Derek is distraught by his son's obesity. After Matilda's ghost asks him to protect their son, Hansel convinces Derek to accept Derek Jr.  After meeting the Headmaster, Derek takes his son around Rome. However, Derek Jr. becomes disgruntled with his father and returns to the orphanage.  Hansel receives an anonymous call, requesting that he travel to St. Peter's Basilica at midnight. He, Derek, and Valentina go to the church and meet with Sting, who tells them the tale of Adam and Eve and the little-known Steve, a secret that many popstars have died to protect. It is said that Steve is the common ancestor of all models and that he and his closest descendant (Derek Jr.) holds the bloodline of the Fountain of Youth. Derek returns to the orphanage, only to find it in disrepair and his son and the Headmaster gone.  Derek meets with Jacobim "Mugatu" Moogberg at the Fashion Prison where he is held but Mugatu tricks him and escapes. Hansel infiltrates the House of Atoz where he witnesses Mugatu reuniting with Alexanya and killing Don Atari. He also finds Derek Jr. imprisoned but is unable to rescue him.  Hansel reunites with Derek and Valentina at the IncrediBALL. They enter a bathhouse and witness Derek Jr. strapped to a sacrificial table. Mugatu and many of the world's fashion designers prepare to cut out Derek Jr.'s heart and consume his blood, believing it to grant them eternal youth as it contains the blood of Steve. Derek, Hansel, and Valentina stop Mugatu from proceeding and he reveals that he brought together the world's fashion designers to kill them as revenge for leaving him imprisoned.  Alexanya, who is actually Katinka Ingabogovinana in disguise, attacks Valentina, and they start "sexy fighting," while Mugatu tells Derek that he was behind the destruction of his Center by hiring the construction crew to build a faulty base. He then throws an explosive towards the lava. Derek manages to stop it with his "Magnum" look but struggles to keep it suspended in mid-air. Sting arrives and reveals that he is Hansel's father, and they, along with Derek Jr. releasing the look, "El Niño", successfully hurl the explosive back at Mugatu, presumably killing him in the process. Derek Jr. forgives his father for his mother's death and Derek and Valentina confess their love for each other. Matilda's ghost gives them her blessing.  Six weeks later, Derek and Hansel have returned to modeling. Hansel returns to living with his orgy and is now the father of 10 children. Derek and Valentina have a daughter named Darlene V. Zoolander, while Derek Jr. becomes the next hot model and is now in a relationship with Malala Yousafzai. As the end credits start rolling, Derek and Hansel celebrate their heroism with their friends, Derek's family, and a newly reformed Mugatu, who has survived from the explosion.