A police officer responds to a 911 call that came from a large home, upon his investigation he comes across an old woman who had apparently died of fright, holding a set of rosary beads. Bryan Beckett (Tim Daly) is an overly analytical lawyer, whose lack of true emotion has caused a rift in his marriage. When he gets word that his old aunt had died, he assumes he inherits her home as a result of being her remaining kin. He makes it clear he does not believe in life after death, or many other superstitions and treats her death and funeral like everyday events. His friend and partner at the law firm Sully (Tom Arnold) has a seizure when they visit the home and warns Bryan not to enter the closet behind the cross. He recovers having no recollection of saying this. Wanting a separation from his wife to "scare her" into accepting his behavior, Bryan decides to spend a few weeks at his aunt's home. While he is there several strange occurrences are ignored by him that might hint at haunting behavior; a chest in the upstairs bedroom falls unaided, a large shrine is found in the closet behind a crucifix, and the house is filled with strange unexplained noises and glimpses of what appears to be a woman.  Bryan learns that the house was willed to an institute that studies sleep disorders. Upon investigation, the director Koven shows him another department that deals with psychic energy for scientific research. Though he maintains that they do not believe in the paranormal, Bryan decides to contest the will. But the sounds of whispering about an old trunk send him back. After Koven discounts his theories of voices in his house, Bryan goes to his psychiatrist Shepard (Edward Herrmann) who decides that Bryan's stress-induced insomnia is to blame. The visions become more vivid, and Cassie (Zoe Saldana) a psychic specimen of Koven's arrives to scan the house. She comes to several conclusions that Bryan had not disclosed, and the strange sound of someone falling down a flight of stairs that only he can hear clearly disturbs him. While going through an old trunk he found in the basement, Bryan and Cassie come across a doll that absolutely terrifies him into an emotional outrage. The next day, he begins to sense recurring memories of his mother abusing him and locking him in the same closet that seems to be the source of the hauntings. Shepard confirms this, and allows Bryan to remember that as a five-year-old, due to the harsh treatment by his mother, he consciously placed toys on the stairs, causing her to fall down them to her death. Shepard and Bryan's father used Bryan's repressed memories to make him forget about the event entirely. This makes Bryan realize that it is the ghost of his mother haunting the house.  He returns to his aunt's home, but decides against going in. He sees Cassie's car parked in the driveway and calls her from outside the house but he is unable to reach her, so he enters the home searching for her. He calls her cell phone again and she answers. He asks why she left her car in the driveway and she says she didn't. He looks out the window and finds that her car is not there. Bryan realizes that his mother tricked him to get him in the house. A now angry Bryan, storms from the room and finds his mother's body lying on the floor at the foot of the stairs. The shock causes him to faint and he falls down the stairs, landing where his mother had died. As his mother touches his face, he receives a vision of the picnic he had missed on the day before her death, when she had locked him in the closet for leaving a sock on the floor when he cleaned his room. It is implied in this vision, that she is apologizing to him for her deeds; then all goes dark and Bryan finds himself at the foot of the stairs as the screen goes dark.