Cherie Currie is a teenager in Los Angeles who desperately wants to be a rock star. She idolizes David Bowie and cuts her hair and dons make-up so she will resemble Bowie's character Aladdin Sane. At her high school talent show, she lip syncs to "Lady Grinning Soul" and wins, despite some hecklers in the audience.  Joan Jett is a teenager who also dreams of rock stardom. At a club one night, she meets record producer Kim Fowley and talks about starting an all-girl rock band. Kim is interested. He introduces Joan to Sandy West, a drummer. Joan and Sandy become friends and start jamming when Kim suggests that they recruit an attractive blonde in the vein of Brigitte Bardot.  Kim and Joan comb Los Angeles' clubs to look for attractive blondes and discover Cherie. They invite her to audition at a trailer park in the San Fernando Valley and to prepare a Suzi Quatro song to perform at her audition. Cherie learns Peggy Lee's "Fever" instead and goes to audition, but the band is disappointed at her choice. Kim and Joan then write "Cherry Bomb" on the spot for Cherie to audition with. Cherie sings the song and becomes part of the band, named the Runaways, joined by Lita Ford on lead guitar and Robin on bass. Joan and Cherie share a passionate kiss (but what follows between them is not explicit).  The Runaways are soon signed to Mercury Records and release an album. On account of the album's success, they travel to Japan to play a concert. Following their performance, Lita throws magazines at Cherie because they have pictures of Cherie only. Cherie is shocked because she thought the articles were to cover the whole band. As Lita, Cherie and Joan argue, overenthusiastic fans break through the window and chase the girls out of the building. Cherie's drug use worsens, until she overdoses in the hotel elevator and is sent to the hospital. Upon arriving back in the United States, Cherie begins to abuse her alcoholic father's painkiller medication.  At the studio recording their next album, Cherie has a mental breakdown and refuses to play after reading a cruel comment about her by Kim in a magazine article. Lita then rudely insults Cherie for being more popular than the rest of them; Cherie insists that she never asked for it. Kim orders Cherie to get in the booth and sing and Lita continues insulting her. Though Joan defends her, Cherie angrily quits the band and leaves the studio. Joan is outraged, and the Runaways are finished. Cherie returns home while Joan starts her own band, Joan Jett and the Blackhearts. Cherie collapses again in a phone booth in an abandoned parking lot after attempting to buy cheap liquor for herself. At the hospital, her twin sister Marie Currie visits her and orders her to straighten herself up.  A few years later, Cherie is working in a local bakery and hears Joan's cover of "I Love Rock 'n' Roll" on the radio and calls the station, where Joan is visiting for an interview. After an awkward conversation between Joan, Cherie, and radio host Rodney Bingenheimer, Cherie says her goodbyes and continues working, smiling when Joan's next song, "Crimson and Clover", comes on the radio.