Tom Harris is a freelance undercover operative working for the CIA to insert malware into a secret Iranian nuclear research facility. Tom's cover is a field technician for a Swiss communications contractor. His mission is successful, and the malware causes the facility to self destruct, preventing the Iranians from acquiring more nuclear bombs.  The Iranian government has been monitoring a British journalist Luna Cujai. She receives evidence from a whistle blower of the CIA's ongoing sabotage of Iran's nuclear programs. After the facility is destroyed, she is arrested by an Iranian security agency led by Farzad. She tells the Iranians she suspects a link between the facility's destruction and the Swiss contractor because their contracts are next to government sites. The next day, Harris's partner in the operation, Oliver, is murdered by the Iranian Special Force after both Oliver and Harris's identity are compromised.   Tom leaves Iran en route to London via Dubai. While in Dubai, his flight to London is delayed, and he visits his CIA handler, Roman Chalmers. Roman is a Muslim convert, living under the outward pretense of a Dubai socialite, a lifestyle he secretly despises. Roman claims to have delayed the flight to force this meeting. Tom accepts Roman's lucrative CIA contract for a job in Herat, Afghanistan, because it will pay enough to cover his daughter’s medical university expenses.  After he arrives in Herat, due to an intelligence leak, the news names Tom as the operative responsible for the destruction of the nuclear facility. With his cover now blown, the mission in Herat is aborted. Roman directs Tom and his Afghan-American translator Mohammad “Mo” Doud to an extraction point in Kandahar. Farzad and Pakistani security services learn Tom is in Herat, and each sends operatives to apprehend him, with Pakistan wanting to ransom Tom to the highest bidder. Tom and Mo are chased by Farzad and ISI agent Kahil Nassir but they elude both pursuing parties and escape to the desert.  En route to Kandahar, Tom and Mo are attacked by Farzad in a helicopter. Tom destroys the helicopter and kills Farzad and its crew. Now on foot, Tom and Mo seek aid from Tom's friend, an Afghan warlord not associated with the governing Taliban. Mo reveals to Tom and the warlord that the warlord killed Mo's son years ago. Despite angering the warlord, he provides Tom and Mo with a vehicle and they depart the warlord's camp.  Meanwhile, Roman stops communicating with the CIA and arrives in Afghanistan to join the Afghan SF Commandos masquerading as ISIS-K unit. Tom and Mo are captured by a Taliban warlord paid by Kahil. Tom concludes his warlord friend sold him out. Roman and the commando fighters attack the compound where Tom and Mo are held captive. The Taliban warlord is killed. Kahil arrives at the scene of the battle and he realizes the attackers' ruse paid by the CIA. Roman, Tom, and Mo escape by vehicle from the compound while the battle continues. Speculating that Tom will use an old CIA airbase to extract, Kahil organizes another Taliban unit to intercept Tom.  As Tom, Roman, and Mo reach the extraction point, Kahil attacks their vehicle. Roman is mortally wounded, and jumps from the vehicle to buy the rest time. Before dying, Roman recites the Shahada. After the Talibans knocked their car, Tom fights Kahil and severely wounds him. However, a CIA director orders an unauthorized missile strike on the remaining Taliban pursuers. This enables Tom and Mo to escape on a British military cargo plane. The British journalist is released while Tom and Mo reunite with their families.