In New York City, Moose and Camille attend the New York University. Moose is majoring in electrical engineering after promising his father that he would not dance anymore. While touring the campus, he sees a pair of Limited Edition Gun Metal Nike Dunks worn by Luke Katcher, the leader of the House of Pirates dance crew. Moose follows the shoes and then stumbles upon a dance battle, where he beats Kid Darkness from the dancing crew House of Samurai. Luke takes him back to his place, an old warehouse converted into a club, to try to convince Moose to join his dance crew, with whom he teams up. Luke believes that with the skills of Moose and the rest of his crew dancers that they could win the $100,000 grand prize in the World Jam Championships contest to solve financial problems. After all, he is five months behind in the mortgage payments and the warehouse could be put for auction at any second, if they are not paid.  Luke meets Natalie at the club and notices her dancing abilities, enlisting her to become part of his crew, but is unaware of Natalie's motives. Moose has to choose between his studies and dance, between a test and a dance competition. He goes to test, but seeing the paper and receiving a message from Luke, he rushes to the competition just in time.  Luke and Natalie become close as the movie progresses. Luke explains his true intentions with his recordings and dance interviews. Natalie is hiding the fact that her brother is Julien, the leader of the House of Samurai, and lies about everything but the love connection between her and Luke.  Natalie faces a hard decision between her love and her family. She confronts Luke and asks what happened with him and Julien. He says that Julien was a member of the House of Pirates, but has a gambling problem and he once wagered against the Pirates and threw the battle, so the Pirates kicked him out. After arguing with Julien, she decides to leave Luke rather than betray him further. Julien uses her phone to invite Luke for her birthday party. Luke asks Moose to attend the party with him, but they are not permitted to enter because they have no invitation. They find a way to get in and Luke and Natalie dance a tango. Julien reveals Natalie's identity and Luke is angry with Natalie. When Luke arrives back at the warehouse, he finds it is foreclosed. Angry at himself for not being a better leader, he exclaims that the House of Pirates is over, and the crew members go their separate ways. Moose and Camille are best friends, but Moose does not see that Camille is in love with him. The two fall out after Moose shows up late to a party; the final straw after being distant with her since arriving at university.  Moose and Camille make up in the streets by dancing as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers to a remix of "I Won't Dance". Camille tells Moose that he can never give up dancing as he was born to do it. Moose helps out Luke by bringing the House of Pirates back together, and giving him additional members for his crew including Camille and The MSA Crew from the previous film. They discover that several former pirates are now performing with the House of Samurai and they were told by former crewmate, Carlos, that Julien has bought their warehouse, but says if they throw the battle, they can have it back, but they do not take the offer.  Natalie helps Luke and the Pirates win the World Jam with their practiced routine. She invites him to come with her to California, which he does by meeting her at the train station and kissing her just as Moose kisses Camille. Before leaving, Luke gives Moose the pair of Limited Edition Gun Metal Nike Dunks while the movie ends.