Fourteen-year-old Georgia Nicolson lives in Eastbourne with her parents Connie and Bob and younger sister Libby. She is insecure about her appearance and fears she will never have a boyfriend. On the first day of the new school term, Georgia and her friends Jas, Ellen and Rosie spot fraternal twin brothers Robbie and Tom Jennings, who have recently moved to Eastbourne from London.  Georgia and Jas decide to approach the brothers in their mother's organic foodshop, where they work. Jas is quickly enamored with Tom and Georgia strikes up a conversation with Robbie. However, they soon discover that Robbie is dating Lindsay, the most popular girl in school. After learning that Robbie likes cats, Georgia pretends that her cat Angus has gone missing and asks Robbie for help finding him. Jas has Angus on a leash in the park, but he escapes and Tom rescues him just as Georgia and Robbie arrive. Robbie leaves to spend time with Lindsay and Tom asks Jas on a date, after which they become a couple.  Bob moves to New Zealand after receiving a promotion, while the rest of the family stays in England. During his absence, Connie hires a handsome interior decorator, Jem, to redo the living room, and begins to spend increasingly longer periods of time with him, prompting Georgia to worry about the state of her parents' marriage.  Determined to impress Robbie, Georgia takes "snogging lessons" from a classmate, Peter, who becomes infatuated with her. When Peter tries to kiss Georgia at a party, he embarrasses her in front of Robbie (who later assumes that Georgia and Peter are a couple), Lindsay, Jas and Tom. In order to evade Peter, Georgia lies to him about being a lesbian. When Tom invites Jas to go swimming with him and Robbie, Georgia tags along. While in the pool, Robbie and Georgia kiss. Before leaving, Robbie promises to call Georgia later.  After not hearing from Robbie in a while, Georgia is heartbroken. She decides to make Robbie jealous, hoping he will realise his feelings for her. She invites Robbie's best friend, Dave, to a concert by Robbie's band, the Stiff Dylans. Seeing Georgia and Dave dancing and laughing, Robbie tries to talk to her but is stopped by Lindsay.  At school, Dave confronts Georgia about using him to make Robbie jealous. Upon learning what Georgia did to Dave, Robbie severs ties with her. Georgia discovers it was Jas who accidentally leaked this information. After Georgia kicks Jas in the shin during an argument, they vow never to speak to each other again. Shortly afterwards, Robbie tells Georgia he was considering breaking up with Lindsay before becoming involved with her, but now he is disappointed with her recent behaviour.  Devastated, Georgia decides that she would like to move to New Zealand. She stops by her father's workplace and tearfully vents to the receptionist, telling her that she does not want her family to be apart from each other. She later goes to the beach, knowing Robbie would be there, and apologises to him. Robbie reveals he ended things with Lindsay and admits he still likes Georgia.  On Georgia's 15th birthday, Connie takes her to a nightclub for the first time. The place initially seems empty, but Georgia's friends and family soon arrive to reveal a surprise birthday party, which Jas secretly organised with Connie. Georgia and Jas make amends. Bob returns from New Zealand, having accepted a new job opportunity in Eastbourne. It is revealed that Jem is gay and his boyfriend owns the club. While the Stiff Dylans are performing the song "Ultraviolet", which Robbie wrote about Georgia, Lindsay arrives from her own birthday party (which no one attended) and demands that Robbie choose between her and Georgia. He chooses Georgia, kissing her onstage. Jas pulls out Lindsay's breast pads and tosses them into the crowd, prompting Lindsay to storm off.  Ultimately, Georgia realises she does not need to change her appearance, as Robbie likes her the way she is.