Kaylee, a Native American woman who was once a boxer, is now an addict living in a shelter and working as a waitress. Some time ago, Kaylee's younger sister Weeta was kidnapped and taken into a sex trafficking ring. She is one of the hundreds of young girls who go missing every year. No one has heard of her since. Kaylee is still searching.  After finding a lead on Weeta's whereabouts, Kaylee meets the procurer of a local trafficking ring. The man takes pictures of her, drugs her, masturbates in front of her, and tells her that she will be sent to a man looking to buy a "Native girl".  Bobby is the son of the ring's kingpin, Willie. Kaylee is chloroformed, tied up, and taken by Bobby to the buyer's home. She wakes up alone in a basement and using a razor blade hidden under her tongue, she cuts herself free. Once Bobby and the buyer arrive, Bobby explains that he knows what she is trying to do and that she will never find her sister. When he leaves the room, and the buyer prepares to rape her, Kaylee pulls out the razor blade, kills the buyer, and runs away. Willie and his crew arrive to get rid of the dead body. Kaylee returns to the house and hides in Bobby's car. She sees Willie hit Bobby and order him to leave.  Bobby goes home to his wife Linda and son Junior. When he leaves the room, Kaylee enters the house and ties his family up, putting tape over their mouths to stop them from screaming. Bobby returns and a fight ensues, with Kaylee using her expertise as a boxer to gain the upper hand. After tying him up, Kaylee demands information about her sister but he refuses to answer. She stabs him in the leg, threatens to cut off Linda's ear, and begins to waterboard him. An uncooperative Bobby drowns to death.  Kaylee interrogates Linda and learns that Willie owns a train yard where he will transport the next "batch" of kidnapped girls. Kaylee arrives at the train yard with only Bobby's gun in her possession. At gunpoint, one of Willie's truck drivers tells her that the girls are in a nearby warehouse. She finds them and tells them to escape when the procurer from before spots her. He runs away and Kaylee shoots him several times. She questions him but he begins to apologize and beg instead. Kaylee walks away, letting the procurer bleed to death. Kaylee reveals that she has hidden Linda and Junior in her car. She orders Linda to take him to Willie, who lives in a mansion.  Inside the house, Linda is greeted by Willie's wife Debra, who says Willie is in the library. She mentions that Linda regularly visited them every time Bobby became aggressive. In the bathroom, Linda messages Kaylee with the correct information about where Willie is but also calls 9-1-1 before leaving. Kaylee holds Willie at gunpoint and asks about Weeta. Debra barges into the room with a gun and accidentally shoots Willie in the face. Kaylee shoots and kills Debra as Debra shoots again, hitting Kaylee in the stomach. In her final moments, Kaylee imagines what her life would have been if she had succeeded, as she envisions herself entering her comeback boxing match.