On assignment in India, French television journalist Marie Lelay is caught in the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Pulled lifeless from the water, they try to resuscitate her but she's left for dead. She gasps back to life after glimpsing the afterlife. Marie is reunited with her lover Didier after and they return to Paris. The experience interferes with her work, so Didier (also her producer) gives her a leave of absence.  In San Francisco, George Lonegan reluctantly agrees to perform a psychic reading for Christos, a wealthy client of his brother Billy. An actual medium due to a childhood near-death experience, George quits as a psychic due to the emotional, disturbing impact of communicating with the dead. He asks if “June” means anything, which Christos denies; later he tells Billy that June was his late wife's nurse, with whom he was in love.  In London, 12-year-old twins Jason and Marcus try to prevent their alcoholic, heroin-addicted mother Jackie from losing them to social services. Evading the authorities, Jackie sends Jason to the chemist to pick up her detox prescription, having finally decided to get clean. Running from street thugs, Jason is hit by a van and killed. Social services then put Marcus into a foster home.  Marie travels to Switzerland to meet a hospice director, a former skeptic now convinced the afterlife exists. She persuades Marie to write a book on her experience, in hopes the scientific community will accept the reality of life beyond death.  Desperate for a reunion with his brother, Marcus steals money from his foster parents and seeks help to contact Jason, but only encounters frauds. Before he can board the London underground at Charing Cross, Jason's cap blows off Marcus’ head. Anxious to find it, he misses his train, which explodes during the 2005 London Bombings.  At a cooking class, George is partnered with Melanie. Hitting it off, they prepare dinner at George's home, where a phone message from Billy forces him to reveal his ability as a psychic. Melanie persuades George to help her. The spirit of her father communicates through him, asking forgiveness for what he did to her as a child. Melanie flees in tears, and does not return to the cooking class.  Having been in talks with a publisher about a biography of François Mitterrand, Marie stuns them with her new manuscript: "Hereafter: A Conspiracy of Silence". The publisher rejects the work, but steers her toward another in London. Marie learns Didier does not intend to give back her job, as her reputation has been damaged from her interest in the hereafter, and he is sleeping with another woman, effectively ending their relationship.  Laid off from his factory job, George is persuaded by Billy to revive his psychic practice. However, he impulsively travels to London, on a Dickens kick, listening to Derek Jacobi’s audiobooks, visiting the Charles Dickens Museum and attending Jacobi's live reading at the London Book Fair, where Marie is also reading her newly published book, Hereafter. Handing George a signed copy, he has a flash of her near-drowning.  At the event with his foster parents, Marcus spots George, who he has read about online. George brushes him off and returns to his hotel, but Marcus stands outside until George agrees to do a reading. Through George, Jason tells Marcus he is happy in the afterlife, and that he had knocked off his cap to save Marcus at the train station, and not to fear being alone "because we are one." With this closure, Marcus visits his mother, who is improving in a rehab center.  George leaves a note for Marie, inviting her to a café, He has a vision of them kissing. Their shared glimpses of the hereafter having made them better appreciate life, George and Marie sit together.