At the Scientific Research Institute for the Study of Homicidal Baked Goods, The Gingerdead Man is visited by Clarissa Darling, an FBI agent, who attempts to kill the Gingerdead Man because he possesses the soul of her brother Toothless McHomeless of who was driven to suicide after taking a bite of the Gingerdead Man. As she's about to shoot the "half-baked piece of shit", a group of animal rights activists breaks into the institute, overpowers her, and releases the Gingerdead Man and the rest of the baked inmates. The killer cookie comes across the "Time Travel Studies" room, shoots Dr. Acula and his partner, and is sent back through time as Security tries to kill him.  He arrives at a Roller Disco Beauty Pageant in 1976 and can not get the remote to work to get him out, so he decides to kill. While the club's owner, Trixie, tells the skaters she has to close it down due to taxes, the Gingerdead Man kills three car-washing bimbos, Doreen, Connie, and Sandy, by connecting the hose to a tank of hydrochloric acid, melting them. Trixie introduces her odd niece, Cherry  (who possesses telekinesis) to the skaters and then enlists her to help her pack up her office. Cherry meets one of the disco’s staff, Randy, and skates with him against Trixie‘s wishes. Heading back inside, the Gingerdead Man tries to get one of the employees, Ingrid Harshman, to suck him off through a glory hole but she rips it off and eats it. He continues on and discovers the disco’s janitor, Bugsby, having a threesome with two drugged teens, Peaches and Tux, and kills them all with a nail gun. Cherry is eventually nominated as one of the Beauty Pageant’s finalists at the club, to the dismay of Trixie, who reveals that she caused the attack on Pearl Harbor with her skating talent, and the four-year winning champion, Tammy Pimento. When Tammy discovers she'll lose the pageant vote, she has her boyfriend, Wheels Epstein, set up a bucket of pig blood to fall on Cherry’s head during the ceremony.  The Gingerdead Man kills the shoe clerk, Leroy, with a meat cleaver in the bathroom and mixes up the DJ Angel's cocaine with a cleaning product, killing her and takes over the music for the “Saturday night cleaver”. Meanwhile, two kids, Pickles and Tina discover the remote, manage to get it working, and are sent traveling through time. The Gingerdead Man messes up the prank and the bucket falls on Tammy instead. He cleaves her head in half and cleaves Wheels on stage. Pulling a gun from somewhere, he shoots Tammy’s crew, Coco, Yoko, and PJ, dead. When the cookie shoots Trixie in the shoulder, Cherry uses her telekinesis to lock the doors in the club and brings the disco ball down, inadvertently electrocuting everyone except herself, Trixie, Ralph Ingrid, Randy, and the Gingerdead Man.  As the cookie's about to finish them off, Pickles and Tina return from time-traveling with Clarissa Darling, Security, Adolf Hitler, Charles Manson, Jeffrey Dahmer, and Lizzie Borden. All six-time travelers overpower the cookie, tear him to pieces and shove him into a cookie jar-magic lamp. Pickles and Tina reveal to the aunt the winning numbers for the lottery, which is enough to keep the club up and running. Pickles and Tina also reveal that because they warned the FBI Agent about the attack on the Institute, the events of the entire film never happened. Everyone who has died comes back to life, and the time travelers go back to their own time period, including the aunt, who goes back in time to prevent herself from causing the Pearl Harbor attacks.