An architect named Dana Barrow (Kate Beckinsale) moves with her husband David and their 5-year-old son Lucas from Brooklyn to the Blacker estate in rural North Carolina, a once-grand dream home that has sat abandoned since the death of its original owners in the 19th century. Upon arrival, Dana begins having unsettling visions and nightmares of a mysterious German Shepherd and Lucas covered in blood. She finds a homemade gravestone on the grounds and an area of the house not listed in the blueprints: a room whose entrance is blocked by a large Chifforobe. The couple pushes it out of the way only to find a locked door. Dana finds the key on top of the door frame and enters the room, experiencing a vision of a little girl being tormented by her father and his German Shepherd. She suffers a nervous breakdown.  Later it is revealed that the couple not only had Lucas, but also a daughter; Catherine, who died a year before.  Shaken by her experience, Dana researches the history of the house, learning about its namesake Judge Ernest Blacker and his daughter, Laura Blacker, who died the same day that Dana's daughter was born, July 5. Local historian Judith tells her the Blacker family had a secret "disappointments room" in the attic, where wealthy socialite families cruelly shuttered their deformed or disabled children. As she spends more time researching the house, Dana's mental state begins to unravel, and she stops taking her medication. She begins having disturbing visions of Laura, Judge Blacker, and the dog, and acts erratically toward David and Lucas. She finds a hidden portrait of Judge Blacker and Mrs. Blacker and burns it.  While David entertains family friends on the occasion of what would have been Catherine's first birthday, Dana hires local handyman Ben Philips to dig up the grave in the backyard. The ghost of Judge Blacker kills Ben with a shovel and Dana discovers his body hanging from a noose above the open grave. Inside the grave sits Laura's deformed skeleton. In the attic, she finds the portrait she burned completely intact. Entering the disappointments' room, she witnesses a flashback of Judge Blacker murdering Laura with a hammer, as his wife tries to stop him. Blacker's dog attacks Dana; she breaks the dog's neck and stops Blacker from killing her son by bashing Blacker with the hammer. In the meantime, Laura's ghost is finally free and runs away from the house and vanishes. David rushes in, seeing Dana frantically hitting the bed with Lucas in it. He takes Lucas to their bedroom, then returns to talk to Dana.  Calming down, Dana reflects on Catherine's death, a flashback reveals that Catherine died after being suffocated after her mother had fallen asleep over her. She realizes that she can no longer tell what's real when she realizes that she was hallucinating Ben's murder and corpse. David vows that they will return to Brooklyn, and that Dana will get better. Before leaving, he removes the door from the disappointments' room, and Dana takes one of Laura's figurines. As they drive away, Dana spots Judge Blacker looking down at them from the window.