Jo Mitchell, an 18-year-old high school senior from Ohio, attends North Shore High School and hopes to attend Carnegie Mellon, the alma mater of her late mother who died when Jo was a baby.  On her first day, she encounters a clique called "The Plastics", composed of Mandi Weatherly, the self-proclaimed leader; Chastity Meyer, a ditzy girl with a raging libido; and Hope Plotkin, a hypochondriac. Jo also meets Abby Hanover, whom Mandi perceives to be a rival. Despite Jo's attempts to avoid the Plastics, conflict develops between them and Abby.  Jo's father is a mechanic who rebuilds engines for NASCAR. As a result, she becomes a good mechanic and takes an advanced shop class, where she meets a boy named Tyler and develops a crush on him. Her principal means of transportation is a Vespa motor scooter.  After Jo gives Abby a ride home, she meets her father, a successful entrepreneur who offers to pay Jo's college tuition in exchange for her good friendship with Abby. Jo reluctantly accepts, motivated by her desire to attend Carnegie Mellon. Jo, Tyler and Abby become close friends, while Jo learns that Tyler is Mandi's stepbrother. Mandi escalates her prank war, which includes using artificial sweetener and coffee to ruin an engine being rebuilt by Jo's father.  When Jo and Abby discover that Mandi is throwing a birthday party, Jo decides that Abby have one also; Abby's party is "all invited", unlike Mandi's "invite only" party. After the Plastics see no one at Mandi's but hears Abby's party's music, they have Hope put ipecac onto the pizza that is ordered there. After Jo notices it smells funny, she sees Hope also paying the pizza delivery guy, so she stashes it away. When the Plastics go to that party, they don't see anyone puking. Just as Nick, Mandi's boyfriend, doesn't see any food, Jo gives him the injected pizza to eat; after Mandi kisses him for Jo to see, he vomits on her.  Jo, Abby, and another outcast girl, Quinn, start a new clique called the "Anti-Plastics" and play a series of pranks on Chastity and Hope. Jo runs against Mandi for Homecoming Queen and their campaign threatens Tyler and Jo's relationship. When Jo tries to give back the money Sidney Hanover had given her for her friendship with Abby, Mandi overhears and uses this against her. This leads to Tyler and the "Anti-Plastics" going against her as she is turning towards Mandi's personality.  Mandi and Nick steal the homecoming court charity money, which is to be donated to an animal shelter. She plants it in Jo's shed, then tips off Principal Duvall. Thanks to an unwitting betrayal by Quinn, Jo is expelled, but not before she finds Mandi and challenges her to a game of flag football. Mandi refuses until realizing she needs to win to remain popular, so she reluctantly agrees.  Tyler and the other Anti-Plastics try to help Jo prove her innocence with the help of the tech-savvy Elliott. After the Anti-Plastics beat the Plastics at flag football, Mandi and Nick are arrested after Elliott finds images of them planting the money in Jo's home; Elliott texts them to all. Principal Duvall apologizes to Jo. At the Homecoming Dance, Abby and Elliott are elected King and Queen (as Jo has dropped out of the competition), and Jo and Tyler kiss.  Jo and Abby decide to attend Carnegie Mellon together, while Tyler attends Penn State. Quinn assumes her long coveted position as the leader of the Plastics. Mandi and Nick get community service and are allowed to graduate, but they lose their popularity. Chastity learns the meaning of her name and Hope begins working on overcoming her hypochondria.