Sierra Burgess is a smart, aspirational, unpopular high school student striving to get admitted into Stanford University. Popular classmate Veronica both criticizes and insults her, which she responds to with wit and sidesteps with charm.  Jamey is a handsome football player from another high school; unaware that Veronica has a boyfriend in college, he asks for her phone number. Wanting to dodge Jamey's attention, she gives him Sierra's number.  Jamey and Sierra begin texting, and eventually begin to flirt. Although she realizes he believes he is communicating with someone else, she develops a crush on him. In band class, Sierra tells her best friend Dan of the situation. He disapproves of her actions, but she defends herself by saying that Jamey's decisions to engage with her have been based on his interactions with her, not Veronica.  Veronica's college boyfriend Spence breaks up with her because he considers her unintelligent. Veronica approaches Sierra, who offers to tutor her in exchange for help in continuing to talk to Jamey. Veronica agrees, and as they continue helping each other, they both learn more about and begin to appreciate one another. Veronica reveals that her father left her mother for a 22-year-old, and that her overbearing mother pushes her towards cheerleading and popularity.  Jamey eventually asks Sierra out on a date; Veronica goes with him as a favor to Sierra. When he tries to kiss her, she tells him to close his eyes, and Sierra kisses him instead.  Jamey later kisses Veronica before a football game; she becomes distraught as she feels she is betraying Sierra, much to Jamey's confusion. Sierra witnesses the kiss and broadcasts to everyone that Veronica was dumped by Spence in retaliation. During the game, Veronica tells Jamey the truth. When a panicked Sierra attempts to defend herself and explain, he recognizes her voice. Shocked, he tells both Sierra and Veronica to stay away from him and leaves.  Sierra writes a song called "Sunflower" and sends it to Veronica as an apology. Veronica finally confronts her mother, telling her she needs to be her own person. She then goes to Jamey's house to play him the song and convince him to give Sierra a chance. He decides to forgive Sierra and take her to homecoming, bringing her a sunflower. They share a kiss and attend homecoming together. When Veronica and Sierra see each other at the dance, they wordlessly reconcile by sharing a hug, joined by Dan.