The movie begins with a team of players playing the Pathfinder RPG (a table-top role-playing-game based on  Dungeons and Dragons). Though the team experiences problems in its schedule and it is unable to meet for more than a year partially because one of the players, Leo, who is a hobby store owner spends a lot of time on a fictionally old card game, Romance of the Nine Empires (R9E), by selling cards and organizing tournaments. At that point the main character of the film Cass who dislikes collectible card games, because of the amount of money the player have to spend and the lack of narrative, meets a veteran and experienced female player Natalie and quickly develops a crush on her. In order to approach her he pretends to be a player and takes part in the tournament.  Players choose one of the nine mighty empires of Countermay to support in R9E, and both their decisions and the results of the tournaments have an impact on how the game develops. At the time a group called The Legacy playing the role of the undead army Ixhasa dominate the game's scene and by making unpopular choices drive the players away from the game. Natalie plays for Holden a small, young and peaceful farm based kingdom.  Initially Natalie rejects Cass but after she loses the tournament to one of the Legacy players and while she is frustrated with the outcome challenge him that if he wins the national tournament at Gen Con and puts her Queen on the God Head seat of Countermay she will date him. While Natalie said that in a clearly ironic way Cass takes it literally and accepts the challenge.  While all this happens two the real world an alternative narrating with painted scenery tells us the story of Countermay and how the outcome of the game matches played by the real-world characters affects it.  Cass starts seriously learning the game and while at the beginning he is at a really low level he later discovers that his friend Leo is also an old player of the game who has now quit and is willing to teach him. Cass becomes a skilled player and meets Natalie again at Gen Con. And while she is still mad at him when she discovers his effort, and the skills he has acquired, she partially accepts him. Later on Cass makes his way through the Swiss to the finals where he meets for the second time the best player of the game Meach. While the first time Cass was easily beaten and he is again overpowered, Meach, knowing that he can't beat the Legacy, proposes Cass an alliance. He will concede the match and in exchange if Cass wins he will choose Meach's king to seat in the God Head Seat. Cass accepts the offer and finally wins the tournament. Later Natalie says that now she owes him a date Cass argues that he didn't actually put her queen on the throne but she proposes to him anyway.