Teenager Gracie Highsmith discovers the dead body of classmate Jamie Marks near a river in a small town in upstate New York. Jamie was an introverted social outcast who was not well-known by his classmates. Police begin investigating his death, suspecting he may have been murdered. High-school track star Adam McCormick is bothered by the discovery, and recounts fleeting memories of witnessing Jamie being severely bullied by their peers. Adam goes to visit the site where Jamie's body was found, and finds Gracie there, creating a memorial for Jamie. Adam and Gracie share mixed drinks at her house one night. Gracie tells Adam she feels sorry for Jamie, as he never experienced love during his short life.  One evening, Adam's single mother, Linda, is struck by a van driven by a woman named Lucy while backing out of their driveway. The car accident leaves Linda unable to walk. Lucy visits their home to make amends, and Linda is welcoming of her, though Adam expresses anger; the women form a friendship despite Adam's reluctance. Adam visits Gracie's house, and the two witness an apparition of Jamie standing outside in the woods at the edge of her yard. Adam is shaken by the event, and en route home, stops at the river. Jamie again appears to Adam, and asks him to lie down in the spot where his body was found. Adam is suddenly awoken by his friends, who have been partying nearby, and is driven home.  Adam is recurrently visited by Jamie, who appears to him in his bedroom. When Adam tells Gracie about this, she tells him she too has felt Jamie's presence, but has chosen to ignore it as it frightens her. Jamie asks Adam to meet him at an abandoned house one night, and the two share stories in the barn. Jamie recounts memories he had in life of Adam; Adam is surprised by this, but also recounts having noticed Jamie in passing. The two are disrupted by Frances, a vengeful spirit who haunts the abandoned home, where she murdered her parents before killing herself years ago. Angered by Frances's crude outburst, Adam burns the abandoned house down, causing Frances to launch into a violent rage. Jamie manages to wrangle Frances from Adam, and Adam flees.  Adam later meets with Jamie near an abandoned train tunnel where other spirits congregate, as it functions as a portal to the afterlife. He and Jamie's bond continues to grow, and Jamie reveals that he was in love with Adam in life, but his shyness and fear of rejection prevented him from ever getting to know him. When Adam returns home, he is tormented by Frances, who appears to him in his house, seeking revenge over her ruined home. Adam is protected by Jamie, who calms the incorrigible Frances. Adam later meets with Gracie at her home, where she reveals to him a written note she found with Jamie's body, which she hid from police. The note contains a list of people and things that Jamie would "like to kill"-- including himself, though explicitly excluding Adam.  Adam realizes Jamie committed suicide.  Jamie appears to them both, enraged that Gracie exposed the note to Adam.  Jamie eventually calms, and with Adam and Gracie's urging, agrees to move on into the afterlife. They drive to the abandoned train tunnel, and Adam walks toward it with Jamie. Still in love with Adam, Jamie asks Adam to stay with him forever. Adam tells Jamie he loves him, albeit platonically. Adam gives Jamie one final word, “love”. The two embrace before Jamie gives Adam his glasses, and walks on into the tunnel.