The story is of sixteen-year-old Max, who has a strange condition: a face so angelic it can be lethal. He is constantly alone until he meets Alex, a girl with her own bizarre ailment who aids him on his quest of self-destruction, without accidentally killing anyone by showing his  face. Alex suffers from a rare heart disease that causes her heart to grow if she feels any emotion (happiness-anger-sorrow-jealousy), because it can't process them.    The two meet after he accidentally kills his latest therapist with his face. Max wants to jump off a bridge to kill himself, but Alex talks him out of it by saying, "You jump, I'll jump." He pursues her, and goes back to the bus stop they had used previously.  They have an adventure of young love, with Alex even taking him to a place she has never showed anyone else; the retirement home she volunteers at. One friend of hers who resides at the home, Esther, is writing a novel of her descent into Alzheimer's.  Their romance begins to weaken after they crash his best friends school dance, where Alex begins to have some issues. While she’s in the bathroom some bullies tear Max's mask off and kill his best friend's latest girlfriend.  He gets arrested but is bailed out, and goes to see Alex in the hospital. There he learns there was never actually a chance of her becoming better and the medicine she was supposed to be taking halted emotions but since she started to fall for him she was willingly to risk her life to feel them so she stopped taking them. She then asks him to kill her by letting her see his face. He freaks out and leaves, only going back once she is close to dying. He finally lets her see his face, which doesn’t actually kill her. He realizes that unconditional love means his face isn’t lethal, she instead dies of natural causes.  To honor her, he visits the nursing home and helps their friend write her novel and finally, he takes a bag of green colored jelly beans and tosses it over the bridge they first met at he walks away knowing what he'll do with his life. He becomes an angel of death, granting euthanasia to all who request it so they can look at his face and die happily and peacefully.