After Madea violates the terms of the house arrest she was subjected to in the previous film, Judge Ephriam orders her to take in a foster child named Nikki in order to avoid jail. At first, Madea and Nikki clash due to the latter's disrespect, stemming from her poor life, including an absent father, a mother in jail, and various uncaring foster homes. However, Madea urges her to overcome her past with hard work, and strive to be better than those who wronged her. Nikki, with consistent support from Madea, reforms her behavior.  Meanwhile, Lisa Breaux, a grand-niece of Madea, is engaged to Carlos Armstrong, an abusive investment banker. While Lisa wants to get out of the engagement, her mother Victoria urges her to go through with the wedding. Vanessa, Lisa's older sister, has two children by two different men, neither of whom are involved in their children's lives; Victoria degrades Vanessa for this. Vanessa is eventually wooed by bus driver Frankie Henderson, who is a single father and loves painting. Vanessa likes Frankie, but is emotionally distant and has a difficult time trusting him.   Lisa eventually leaves Carlos with the intention of calling off the wedding, temporarily moving in with Madea. Carlos, eager to get married, dispatches Victoria to bring Lisa back to him. Victoria confronts Carlos about the abuse. It is then revealed that Victoria, with Carlos's assistance, has stolen from Lisa's trust fund, leaving virtually no money left, and is now encouraging Lisa to marry Carlos in order to keep up her livelihood. Carlos makes it clear to Victoria that he will not bail her out unless the wedding goes forward.  Victoria goes to Madea's house to fetch Lisa, only to end up in an argument with Vanessa, who has become aware of Carlos's abuse and wants to protect her sister. During the confrontation, Vanessa reveals that Victoria allowed her second husband, Lisa's father, to rape Vanessa in order to keep him in the marriage. The sexual abuse occurred on a regular basis and left Vanessa closed-off emotionally and unable to trust the men in her life, including Frankie. Victoria rationalizes her actions, telling her daughters that they faced destitution if Lisa's father had left, and that after previous hardships, she was tired of struggling. Victoria's own mother, a prostitute and drug addict, regularly traded her for "ten dollars and a fix". Victoria then demands that a horrified Lisa begin taking care of her financially. Victoria then leaves and later lies to Lisa, telling her that Carlos has agreed to counseling.  At the family reunion held at the home of 96-year-old Aunt Ruby, Vanessa and Victoria get into another confrontation, which eventually turns into a physical fight after Victoria insults Vanessa's relationship with Frankie.  The fight is broken up when Aunt Ruby, Madea's daughter Myrtle, and Ruby's daughter Aunt May gather the family to an old slave shack where their ancestors grew up. Ruby expresses disappointment at how the family has turned out. Myrtle persuades them to act lovingly towards each other and themselves.  Lisa returns to Carlos and resumes her wedding plans. On the day of her wedding, Lisa has fled Carlos and retreated to Madea's house. Madea tells her that it is time for her to fight back. When Carlos arrives at Madea's house, Madea subtly suggests to Lisa to use the pot of hot grits on the stove to defend herself as Madea previously taught her. When Madea leaves the house, Carlos slaps Lisa. In retaliation, she throws the hot grits in Carlos' face, scalding him, then beats him with a cast iron frying pan as Madea listens outside and laughs.  At the church, Lisa announces to the family and other guests that the wedding is off and exposes Carlos' abuse. Madea lambasts a sour Victoria and tells her to find her own life instead of continuing to live through Lisa. Frankie then asks Vanessa to marry him, and she accepts. They are married at the church instead. At the reception, Victoria accepts Vanessa's marriage, revealing possible reconciliation.