Contemplating suicide, depressed teenager Craig Gilner seeks help at a local hospital. After telling a doctor named Dr. Mahmoud that he needs immediate help, Craig is admitted for five days at the hospital's adult psychiatric floor, due to the temporary closure of the psychiatric floor for adolescents.   Craig's hospitalization was spurred on by the stress of his academically competitive high school and upcoming summer program applications. He was also facing feelings of inferiority in the shadow of his best friend Aaron, and pressure from his father to succeed academically. At first, Craig is uncertain if he made the right choice to stay on the psychiatric floor, fearing his friends may find out where he is, particularly Nia, his crush and Aaron's girlfriend.  Throughout his stay, Craig bonds with various patients in the psychiatric unit. Craig is introduced to Bobby (Zach Galifianakis), a patient who takes Craig under his wing. During a group discussion, Craig learns that Bobby is stressed about an upcoming interview, hoping to move to a group home. Bobby worries that the sweater he is wearing is all he has to wear for the interview, so Craig offers him one of his dad's dress shirts to wear.   Noelle (Emma Roberts), a patient admitted for self-harm, is impressed by Craig's kindness, and leaves him a note to meet with her later on. They attend a painting session for patients together, where Craig paints a picture of an imaginary city map which he describes as "like my own brain". Bobby tells Craig he is a father of a little girl, and has attempted to kill himself six times. As Craig tries to help Bobby with his problems, Bobby, in turn, helps Craig gain the courage to ask out Noelle.  One night, Nia stops by the hospital to visit Craig, revealing that she and Aaron have broken up. Craig invites Nia to his room, where she tries to seduce him. However, they are interrupted by Craig's roommate, Muqtada, who has not left their shared room during his stay. As Nia runs out, Craig chases her, declaring he loves her, unaware that Noelle is standing behind him. Upset, Noelle storms off, leaving behind a self-portrait she had planned to give him.  Craig eventually wins Noelle's forgiveness, and the pair briefly sneak out of the ward, onto the hospital roof. There, Noelle asks him out, and they kiss. Craig has an interview with the head physician, Dr. Minerva; he explains that he has realized that he wants to become an artist, and is thankful his problems aren't as bad as others.   That night, Craig asks the staff for a pizza party, so the patients can say goodbye to him and Bobby—both are being discharged the following day. Craig calls Aaron, asking him to bring a particular record. When Aaron arrives, he tells him that he and Nia are working out their problems and they hug. At the party, Craig plays the record of Egyptian music, bringing Muqtada out of his room. He tells Bobby they should meet again after they are discharged, which he considers, and Bobby thanks him for changing his future outlook.  After Craig is discharged, he narrates a montage showing he has started dating Noelle, become better friends with Aaron and Nia, and begun pursuing his goal to become an artist. Craig has broken the news to his dad that he is not going to follow the path he intended for him, which his dad understands. Craig affirms that, while his stay didn't cure his condition, it significantly helped him, and he can get through the rest of his life with the help of his family and friends.