Carson Wheetly is the wealthy and spoiled 20-year-old son of millionaire NASCAR car racer Ted Wheetly. Carson hates his father who he thinks might have murdered his mother to inherit her money. Carson finds himself tangled up in a game of seduction, greed and murder after a raunchy night (a foursome) with three beautiful women: his girlfriend Rachel Thomas, her school friend Brandi Cox and Linda Dobson during a party.  A few days later, Ted dies during a race; Detective Frank Walker investigates the questionable circumstances. Ted's lawyer, George Stuben, suddenly announces during the reading of the will that Carson cannot inherit Ted's money and estate until he turns thirty or marries. Carson quickly marries Rachel, and inherits. They decide to kill the two other women and keep all the money for themselves. However, Rachel and Brandi are actually plotting to kill Carson so that Rachel can inherit as a grieving widow and split the money between them.  Rachel and Brandi lure Carson to a cheap motel in the Everglades with the intention of sex; after a struggle, Brandi murders Carson by shooting him in the head and leaves a forged suicide note. Rachel inherits Carson's fortune, but intends to murder Brandi to keep all the money for herself. Brandi, anticipating this, plots a scheme of her own to kill Rachel.  Brandi lures Rachel to an old cabin in the nearby swamps with the intention of sex. They both try to kill each other, and though Brandi gets the upper hand, they get discovered. They are both arrested and are separately interrogated by Detective Walker, who reveals that he knows they grew up together and plotted to find a man to marry and then murder so they could inherit a fortune. Brandi incriminates Rachel by revealing hidden video CDs that show both Carson and Rachel tampered with Ted Wheetley's car in order to cause his death, as well as Rachel's blood-stained blouse from the motel, which suggests that Rachel murdered Carson all by herself. Rachel is sent to prison while Brandi gets away scot-free.  After closing the case, Walker retires and joins Brandi on a motor launch boat, revealing himself to be a corrupt cop who helped Brandi incriminate Rachel for Carson's murder so he could get a share of the Wheetly money. However, while at sea, Brandi double-crosses Walker by stabbing him to death and throwing his body overboard. She then flees to the Caribbean to claim all of the money for herself.  Over the end credits, the truth behind the crime is revealed. Ted Wheetly's lawyer George was the true mastermind; a career con-artist, he impersonated a lawyer for many years, approaching Brandi (who held a grudge against the Wheetly family) and having her approach Rachel. Rachel and Brandi manipulated Carson into believing that Ted murdered his mother; Brandi then pretended to bring rape charges against Carson during a party in order to blackmail him into marrying Rachel, and to get a share of Ted's money. George worked behind the scenes the whole time by changing the nature of Ted's will, as well as by planting evidence for Walker to find. Brandi was the one who learned that Walker was corrupt and could be swayed by the offer of money. After killing Walker, Brandi meets with George at a Caribbean island. George empties all of his shell accounts to bring the money into his personal Cayman Islands account. George then betrays Brandi by planting a bomb in a motorboat that Brandi pilots away, and it explodes, killing Brandi. It is also implied that George had Rachel murdered in prison and set it up to look like a suicide. In the final shot, George walks off with all of the $154 million alongside his co-conspirator Linda Dobson, who happens to be his wife.