In 1879, robber baron and gold mining tycoon Bartholomew Bogue, accompanied by an army of hired guns, seizes control of the frontier town Rose Creek and forces the residents to work as cheap labor for his mine. Being denounced by the residents, Bogue has their church torched and several of the townsfolk, including farmer Matthew Cullen, brutally murdered in public view.  Matthew's widow Emma and her friend Teddy leave in search of bounty hunters to help liberate the town. Their first recruit is Sam Chisholm, a famous U.S. Marshal, who expresses interest in Bogue's involvement. Chisholm recruits several others: gambler and trick-shooter Joshua Faraday, pardon-seeking outlaw Vasquez, former Confederate sharpshooter Goodnight Robicheaux, his friend, assassin Billy Rocks, and legendary mountain man Jack Horne. During their journey, they recruit a Comanche warrior named Red Harvest.  The Seven enter Rose Creek and eliminate twenty-two Blackstone private detectives guarding the town. Chisholm apprehends the corrupt sheriff, Mr. Harp, and sends him away to challenge Bogue. Chisholm tells the terrified townspeople that they have seven days before Bogue's army arrives. Some flee but most are determined to fight. The Seven liberate the men held at the mine, take the explosives stockpiled there and spend the next week fortifying the town and training the people. Meanwhile, Bogue kills Harp and orders his Comanche enforcer, Denali, and his right-hand man McCann, to assemble an army. Robicheaux, haunted by his experiences in the Civil War and fearing his own death if he kills again, leaves the town the night before Bogue's arrival; Emma volunteers to take his place.  At dawn, Bogue's army attacks Rose Creek; a large number are killed by various booby traps and ambushes. Faraday is wounded by McCann, who is killed by Vasquez; the defensive line collapses, and Robicheaux returns to join the battle, warning the others of an incoming Gatling gun. The gun tears through both the townspeople and Bogue's men alike. Outgunned, the Seven evacuate the survivors to the burnt-out church and mount a last stand.  Horne protects a wounded Teddy from gunfire, but is killed by Denali; Denali then prepares to kill Emma. An enraged Red Harvest kills Denali, calling him "a disgrace." Robicheaux and Billy are killed by a second round of Gatling gunfire while covering Faraday, who makes a suicidal charge up the hill and destroys the gun with dynamite. Chisholm confronts and guns down the two remaining mercenaries before disarming Bogue. A wounded Bogue retreats into the church, where Chisholm reveals that his family was lynched by ex-Confederate soldiers whom Bogue hired to remove homesteaders. After imploring Bogue to repent, Chisholm begins to garrote him; Bogue tries to draw a hidden revolver, but Emma kills him.  The townspeople return to Rose Creek and thank Chisholm, Vasquez, and Red Harvest for their help as they ride off. Faraday, Robicheaux, Billy, and Horne are buried near the town and honored as heroes. Emma, in voice-over narration, reflects fondly on the noble sacrifice that made them "magnificent".