Journalist Matt Nash's (Dylan Walsh) investigations always get him in trouble. He is shot during his research in the drug scene and survives due to a bulletproof vest. The journal's editor-in-chief plans to fire him to preserve the good reputation of The Examiner. She gives him one last chance and charges him with a seemingly harmless job of finding three missing environmental activists. This trio previously penetrated into the headquarters of the power company known as Saturn Energy and stole data on a secret project. Here, the three activists are discovered and killed by employees of the company under the leadership of the security chiefs Clemens (Tobin Bell).  Matt makes contact with the group and is given access to a secret entrance to the company's premises outside the city. There he discovers that the company is searching for an alternative energy source. A trial operation quickly acquires access to the grid of Los Angeles, explaining the blackouts which have been affecting the town. The technique, however, has one major drawback: the production of energy creates a tremendous amount of heat that must be dissipated. It is conducted on the premises in the ground. In the ground beneath where the site is located, however, a crack develops, which leads to an uncontrolled discharge of the heat. An employee of the company finds out that in this way the chances are increased for an earthquake in town. He wants to warn the public of the experiments, but dies in an explosion.  Meanwhile, Matt has managed to win the trust of Gabrielle St. John (Alison Eastwood), a manager of the company. With their help, he discovers the crimes of the three environmental activists. Preparations for a last experiment in the research facility are in full swing. For the first time, the plant will continue at full speed. However, this threatens a massive earthquake that could destroy the entire city. Matt and Gabrielle again give access to the research site. They manage to sabotage the plant and destroy it. The ex-minister, Clement, and his staff are arrested.