Christian is a wealthy young man who produces low budget horror films. At the start of the film, he is having dinner with his girlfriend Tara, his personal assistant Gina and her boyfriend Ryan. Christian has recently secured a leading role for Ryan in one of his films. Christian reveals that he and Tara have an open relationship and use dating apps to find partners for hookups. He says that he trusts Tara never to fall in love with anyone he brings into their bed.  Ryan accuses Gina of wanting to have a four-way with Tara and Christian. Ryan texts an unknown party for a meeting the next day. Ryan's text was sent to Tara, who meets him the next day. Through their conversation, it is revealed that the two are former lovers. Tired of life as a struggling actor, Tara left Ryan to date a string of wealthy men. Tara chides Ryan for texting her, as Christian monitors her texts and calls. Christian visits an actress named Cynthia for casual sex. Christian thinks Tara is cheating on him. Christian follows Tara and sees her with Ryan. Christian then goes to John, one of the film crew members, and pressures him into playing a prank on Ryan: calling him in to tell him that he's about to be fired but can save his job by performing sexual favors.  Returning home, Christian grills Tara on her activities that afternoon. Tara denies being attracted to Ryan or knowing him previously. Meanwhile, Ryan discovers Christian's daily schedule on Gina's computer, noticing regular "yoga sessions" with Cynthia.  Tara receives an anonymous text telling her she might be in trouble. Cynthia is revealed to have been Christian's girlfriend before Tara. Cynthia tells Tara that she needs to leave Christian and admits to sending the anonymous texts. Cynthia reveals that she left Christian after he drugged her, orchestrated a group assault on her and recorded the incident. When confronted, he brutally assaulted her and threatened to release the video if she told anyone about his actions. Tara rejects Cynthia's warnings.  Christian acknowledges dating Cynthia but denies beating her or arranging the assault. Suddenly Christian's phone rings; a dating app friend is about to arrive. Christian offers to cancel but Tara insists they go through with it. Tara and Christian engage in group sex with the couple who arrives at the house.  Meanwhile, it is revealed that Ryan put Cynthia up to warning Tara. While browsing around a record store Ryan realizes he is being stalked. Christian violently assaults Tara, revealing that he knows all about her and Ryan.  Meanwhile, Ryan reveals to Gina that he has been sleeping with Tara. Gina announces she will do whatever it takes to make sure the film gets made but Ryan is fired and banned from the set.  At his therapist's office, Christian rants about his need for control over everything in his life, especially Tara. It is revealed that Christian's therapy sessions with Doctor Campbell (Gus Van Sant) are not voluntary, but rather a condition of the trust fund he lives off.  The film then cuts to Christian and Ryan, each driving through downtown Los Angeles. Christian leaves a message on Ryan's voicemail, mocking Ryan and revealing the details he has managed to obtain about Ryan's life. Christian arrives at Cynthia's house and forces his way in, accusing her of lying in an attempt to break up his relationship with Tara. Cynthia denies this but an enraged Christian stabs her to death.  Returning home, Christian finds Tara packed and ready to leave. Christian apologizes for brutalizing her and agrees to let her leave their relationship on two conditions: 1. She must give him an alibi for his murder of Cynthia and 2. She must never contact Ryan; if she refuses, he will murder Ryan and use his family's wealth and connections to get away with it. Tara agrees and is allowed to leave.  The film ends with a flash forward to several months in the future. Tara is living in Dubai and having lunch with a friend. The friend asks about Gina's film and her relationship with Christian. Tara says she left the project when she and Christian broke up. Tara insists she is on good terms with Christian. The friend leaves to use the restroom, where she makes a phone call. She reports that Tara is doing well but clearly lying about being friends with Christian and about being happy in her new life. The final shot shows who is on the other end of the call: Ryan, alone in an empty room.