Failed filmmaker Zach Wells is asked by his friend and hotshot director, Topher Shadoe, to take his place as judge in the annual Keystone Film Festival, held in Zach's alma mater, Keystone Summit University. Zach is initially reluctant, as it brings memories of the festival defining his life for the worse: he won the festival 15 years ago, which convinced him to drop out of college and move to Hollywood, where his career struggled. The night before the judging, Zach goes to a gay bar where he has sex with a younger patron.  To his shock, Zach finds out that the patron is a participant in the festival. Even more puzzling, he is named Danny Reyes, Zach's birth name, and submits Judas Kiss, the same film Zach submitted years ago. Zach suspects it as Topher's elaborate joke, but it becomes more and more real as the headmistress, Mrs. Blossom, dismisses his misgivings about Danny's identity. Zach is approached by Welds, the school's elderly security guard. Welds seems to understand the situation and tips him that Danny, with the help of his friend Abbey Park, cheats in order to increase his chance of winning the competition. He tells Zach that the latter's future depends on whether Danny wins or not.  Danny strikes a relationship with Chris Wachowsky, the winner of the previous year's festival. As he is preparing for the big day, he is approached by Shane Lyons, the son of famous Hollywood producers and self-proclaimed "emperor" of the college. Shane takes an interest in Danny and has sex with him, asking him to move to his residence regardless if he wins the festival or not. Chris warns Danny that Shane is only interested in him because he is a potential winner and will dump him – just as he did to Chris a year ago – if his parents disapprove of his film. However, Danny is insistent about Shane's involvement as his abusive father, Daniel Sr., threatened to cut him off if he shows the film, straining his relationship with Chris and Abbey.  On the day of the awards ceremony, Zach presents evidence of Danny's deception to Daniel Sr., who in turn gives it to Mrs. Blossom. He tries to convince Danny to quit the festival, but the latter brushes him off. Welds appears one last time to Zach and reveals that he is actually Danny – and by extension Zach – as an old man. Danny's fraud costs him the award, but the other judges' assertions win him chance to play Judas Kiss, an autobiography of Danny's abusive life after his mother died. He is given special recognition, but this ends his friendship with Chris and Abbey for good. Danny visits Zach in his apartment and shares his fears. Zach tells him that what already happened cannot change, encouraging him to craft a better life.  After the festival, Zach is working on his project while sitting on a roof, like he did in the beginning. Topher returns from his business and joins him. It is revealed that Topher is really Chris, having reconciled with Zach after the latter failed to break into Hollywood.