Pastor Dan, his wife Wendy, and their three children Rebecca, Mary, and Christopher, have just moved to the small town of Stull, Kansas, where Dan will serve as the new pastor. While traveling to the town, Rebecca sees a teenage boy killing a sheep and collecting the blood. Along the way Dan meets the farmer, Mason, and eventually the family moves into their new home, assisted by the town's old pastor, Pastor Kingsman and parish members. Later that night, Rebecca has a nightmare.  The following day, Pastor Kingsman gives the family a cake that a parish member baked for them as a token of gratitude. Mary later decides to have a slice of the cake but chokes on a tooth baked into the snack. Meanwhile, Rebecca meets the same boy that she saw killing sheep, Noah, who takes her out to see the town. Their fun is interrupted when Mason comes to get Noah, telling him that Pastor Kingsman wants to see him. Rebecca returns home and finds that Mary is feeling ill. Meanwhile, Noah is told by Pastor Kingsman that he should do what is to be done because it is God's will. Noah begrudgingly says that since Mary has discovered the tooth in the cake, she is the chosen one. It turns out that the tooth in the cake is a form of lottery, and whoever comes across it first will be marked as selected.  The film then shifts to Wendy and her family making food for the upcoming Summer Festival, which will begin in a couple of days. The children go into town to do some sightseeing, where Rebecca ends up running into Noah. The two of them end up going on a date on the observation platform of the fire lookout tower in the forest surrounding the town and Rebecca notices a scar on Noah's hand, which he tries to hide. She then notices that a man is watching them from the bottom of the lookout tower.  The next day Rebecca and Mary meet Noah at the festival. He takes them to get some lemonade at a nearby stall, only for Mary's lemonade to end up being drugged with a poison. Mary gets violently ill and tries to go home but is kidnapped by Mason. She awakens to find herself tied to a post while Pastor Kingsman tells her that she was chosen according to God's will. He then opens the "Gateway to Hell", resulting in Mary becoming possessed by the Devil. He then takes her back to her family, telling them that she was sick. Noah unsuccessfully tries to confess to Rebecca what has happened, but is accidentally interrupted by Christopher. Upon returning home, Dan is called away by Pastor Kingman, who tells him that he is needed in the church. This ends up being a ruse, as Pastor Kingsman then drugs and imprisons him shortly after his arrival.  Meanwhile, in the house, Mary awakens completely possessed and vomits a black substance, frightening her family. Wendy sends the remaining two children to find their father. With Noah's help they get inside the church and discover Dan to be seemingly unconscious on the church floor. They help him up and begin to drive home. Back at home, Wendy finds Mary in the corner and is attacked by her. On the way, they see that every house has a mark on its door, an 'X' made out of blood. Frightened, Rebecca repeatedly asks Noah about the mark, but he refuses to answer her. The group arrive at the house, where Dan and Rebecca try to go inside to get Wendy and Mary. Noah grabs hold of Rebecca, telling her to stay outside, and that there's nothing she can do to help them. Dan proceeds inside to find Wendy dead and crumbling away on the couch. Dan stumbles back in fear, and sees Mary crawling towards him on the stairway. He runs out of the house screaming at Rebecca and Noah to start the car and drive away.  They do so and Dan stays behind to try to free Mary, who has followed him out to the front yard, only to meet the same fate as Wendy. Rebecca makes Noah stop the car and argues with him about what is going on. Christopher sees Mary is coming up behind them as Noah tries to explain what is happening to Rebecca. Noah states that the same thing happened to Noah and his family some years ago. Christopher, frightened, runs out of the car to a nearby house and frantically starts banging on the door asking for help. Noah then shoves Rebecca back into the car, leaving Christopher behind. Christopher finds a house and manages to get inside, but not before Mary grabs his leg and infects him. He begs the family for help, but the frightened father brings him back outside. Before Mary can get to him, Noah runs her over as Rebecca rescues Christopher. Noah parks the car in the middle of the street and leaves, begging Rebecca to leave if they see Mary. Soon the car loses power as Mary catches up to them. Noah returns and holds Rebeca back as Mary kills Christopher.  Noah then takes Rebecca to a gathering at an abandoned church with Mary arriving soon afterwards. Noah then cuts her wrist and uses her blood to destroy the Devil, killing Mary in the process, and close the Gateway to Hell. As she lays unconscious, the townsfolk gather around her as a light begins to emanate from the center. Some time later, another family is moving into the town. A new boy from the family catches the attention of Rebecca, having taken Noah's place by killing a sheep before walking away.