Devout evangelical Christian Mary Cummings is entering her senior year at American Eagle Christian High School near Baltimore. She and her friends Hilary Faye and Veronica have formed a girl group called the Christian Jewels. One afternoon, while swimming in his pool, Mary's boyfriend Dean Withers confesses to her that he suspects he is gay. In shock, Mary hits her head, and has a vision in which Jesus tells her to help Dean. Believing Jesus will forgive her, Mary loses her virginity to Dean in an attempt to restore his heterosexuality.  Dean is sent to Christian treatment center Mercy House after his parents find gay pornography in his bedroom. The news shocks and disgusts Mary's friends, aside from Hilary's sardonic, paraplegic brother Roland. Mary later discovers she is pregnant with Dean's child. Her due date is after graduation, so she opts to hide the pregnancy from her classmates, as well as her mother Lillian, who is covertly dating the school's principal Pastor Skip. Feeling forsaken by Jesus and saddened by her peers' reaction to Dean's sexuality, Mary begins questioning her faith. An enraged Hilary ousts Mary from the Jewels and replaces her with unpopular student Tia. Hilary, Veronica, and Tia later accost Mary in the street and attempt to perform an exorcism on her. Mary fights back, and Hilary strikes her with a Bible.  By Christmas time, rebellious Jewish student Cassandra is the only one of Mary's peers who has discovered her pregnancy. Mary befriends Cassandra and Roland, who are now dating, while ostracized by the rest of their peers. Meanwhile, Skip's son, Patrick, attempts to pursue an evasive Mary, much to Hilary's chagrin. Cassandra and Roland retaliate against Hilary's constant harassment of them by uploading photos of a young, overweight Hilary to the school's computer system. The following day, the school is vandalized with obscene, anti-religious graffiti. Skip suspects Mary, Cassandra, and Roland, and discovers empty spray-paint cans in their lockers planted by Hilary, along with a sonogram of Mary's baby, exposing her pregnancy.  Cassandra is expelled while Mary and Roland are banned from the impending prom. Skip threatens to end his relationship with Lillian if she does not send Mary to Mercy House. Meanwhile, Roland discovers the purchase of spray paint on Hilary's credit card statement. Mary, Roland, and Cassandra crash the prom along with Patrick, who takes Mary as his date. Hilary tries to have them ejected, but Roland confronts her with the evidence. Tia, tired of Hilary's lies and hypocrisy, also attests her guilt to Skip, having discovered a receipt bearing Hilary's signature.  A humiliated Hilary storms outside while Dean arrives with his boyfriend Mitch and other residents of Mercy House. They are met by Mary and Patrick in the school foyer, where she reveals her pregnancy to Dean. Skip attempts to banish the Mercy House residents, but they refuse. Patrick and Mary attempt to argue with Skip, but their altercation is interrupted by Hilary driving recklessly through the parking lot and ultimately crashing into the school's effigy of Jesus. She then tearfully expresses remorse for her behavior and is comforted by Cassandra as Mary abruptly goes into labor and is taken to the hospital.  At the hospital, Mary gives birth to a daughter. Skip arrives with flowers and contemplates going inside. As a nurse takes a photo of the group, Mary explains in a voice-over that she has returned to believing in a God who loves and helps the ones that love and help others in need.