Having been fired from his job, Ralphie works as a rideshare driver to support himself and his pregnant girlfriend, Sal. He works out at a local gym with his friend Jason, who sells Ralphie prescription pills. Jason suggests Ralphie meet some of his friends, claiming they have resources to get him back on his feet.  At a restaurant, Ralphie is introduced to this group of men led by the charismatic "Dad Dan." He notices the men are each branded with a tattoo of a triangle with a line across the top. After the dinner, Dad Dan approaches Ralphie in his car. He tells Ralphie that he understands his pain, suggesting he has the look of someone who never had a father figure. The next day, Jason gives Ralphie a new pair of sneakers, telling him it is a gift from the group for making a good impression.   Ralphie attends a meeting at the group's expansive house outside the city. Each man introduces himself as a "Son" or "Dad," and how long they have been practicing celibacy. Ralphie is surprised by the men's open misogyny, revealing these men have all left their spouses to live on this compound together. While exploring the house, Ralphie discovers a gun inside Dad Dan's office desk. Rather than scold him, Dad Dan warmly invites Ralphie to join this "family." He tells Ralphie that he sees a staggering beauty inside of him, with a power to create and annihilate.  Ralphie drives a young kid, who accidentally leaves his phone in the backseat. Ralphie pawns the phone for cash, much to Sal's dismay. Ralphie attends another group meeting, where Dad Dan breaks him down during an initiation exercise. Ralphie reveals his inner rage and the group suggests he leave his girlfriend. While driving at night, Ralphie picks up a gay couple outside a club. When they attempt to have sex in his backseat, Ralphie slams the car to a halt, then dangerously speeds through the streets.  The group goes shopping at a mall. Ralphie refuses to have Dad Dan pay for an expensive shirt for him, instead using his own limited savings. As the group is leaving they run into group member Brad's spouse, who he had abandoned. Ralphie watches her berate Brad, realizing he has made a mistake and attempts to flee. Dad Dan urges Ralphie to take back his power instead. After slapping himself in the bathroom, Ralphie attacks a stranger in a fit of rage.  Sal questions Ralphie about his behavior, leading to a heated argument where Ralphie walks out on her. Ralphie moves into the group's home and is initiated into the group by being branded. After celebrating, Dad Dan offers his gun to Ralphie, who reveals that his father walked out on his family on Christmas Day. Dad Dan attempts to fuel Ralphie's descent further by claiming "There is no god, but Ralph." Ralphie strikes Dad Dan and escapes the compound.   After encountering bodybuilder Ahmet at the gym, Ralphie follows him to an industrial factory. Inside, Ahmet proceeds to have anal sex with him. When they finish, Ahmet introduces himself, but Ralphie suddenly shoots him dead, stealing his truck and pawning his personal belongings. Ralphie returns to Sal, who has just delivered their baby Jayce in the hospital. Ralphie returns from grocery shopping to discover that Sal has left him, leaving only a note that says "Forgive me."  Ralphie returns to Dad Dan's compound with his baby, but is soon followed by police looking to arrest him for Ahmet's murder. Ralphie reveals the gun, demanding the group help him. They take the baby upstairs and Ralphie leads the group in a chant, then shoots Dad Dan in the head. He shoots a police officer, then flees the compound and escapes into the woods. Ralphie eventually comes upon a senior living community, where he breaks into the kitchen pantry for food. A worker discovers him and offers to help him. Ralphie puts the gun to his head and pulls the trigger, but the gun doesn't fire and he collapses. The worker cooks a meal for Ralphie and tells him a story. Ralphie curls up into the worker, who embraces him like a scared child as police arrive at the scene.