The film opens with a modern-day Dylan admitting he does not remember anything about the Rolling Thunder Revue, saying it happened so long ago "I wasn't even born!" He finds it impossible to get to the "core" of what it was all about because "it's about nothing."  As the bicentennial of the country fast approaches, and with the spirit of America particularly bleak after the country's unceremonious exit from Vietnam and the Watergate scandal, Dylan decides to gather together a group of his friends from the Greenwich Village coffee houses and go on an adventurous tour across New England and parts of Canada. Dubbed the "Rolling Thunder Revue", the tour is documented by (fictional) European filmmaker Stefan Van Dorp who seeks to expose the hedonistic attitude of the people surrounding Dylan and juxtapose it against the nihilistic mood of middle-class America.  Along the way, Larry 'Ratso' Sloman, a reporter sent by Rolling Stone to write about the tour, tries to ingratiate himself into Dylan's inner circle. A young Sharon Stone is put in charge of costumes after being taken to a show by her mother and becomes convinced the song "Just Like a Woman" was written for her. Dylan starts to wear Whiteface makeup onstage after violinist Scarlet Rivera takes him to see a Kiss concert. Poet Allen Ginsberg tries to refashion himself as a singer/songwriter as the beat poet movement starts falling out of popular relevance. Joan Baez attempts to rekindle her romance with Dylan by singing with him onstage and dressing up in his stage outfit; Dylan visits a Tuscarora Reservation in New York and performs a rendition of "The Ballad of Ira Hayes". Joni Mitchell joins the tour midway thru and is inspired to write the song "Coyote" about the experience.  During the tour, Dylan's humanitarian side is also shown when he takes time to pay an unscheduled visit to record company executives to ensure rapid release of his new song "Hurricane", the musician's contribution to efforts to exonerate Ruben "Hurricane" Carter, a celebrated boxer wrongfully convicted of murder.  Documentary footage of the meeting is followed by a scene in which actor Michael Murphy, in character as his signature role as U.S. Congressman Jack Tanner (from Tanner '88), delivers a tall tale that credits the fictional Tanner with persuading President Jimmy Carter to intervene on the boxer's behalf. Despite this fictional interlude, as "Rolling Thunder Re-vue" shows, the campaign by Dylan and others would eventually lead to  the retrial and release of Carter.  The tour comes to a stop in Montreal. Van Dorp states the only reason he agreed to be interviewed for this documentary was to stake his claim over the footage from the tour which makes up the bulk of the film. Ginsberg encourages the viewer to follow the example of the performers they have witnessed and go on their own journeys of self-discovery. Dylan continues to tour after the Rolling Thunder Revue, playing over 3,000 shows over the course of 40 years.