Andi and Bruce swindle a pawn shop owner in order to buy food for their dog, Friday. However, they are quickly caught and brought to the police station where they get picked up by their social worker Bernie Wilkins who takes them back to their foster parents, Lois and Carl Scudder, who do not appear to care for either Andi, Bruce, or their dog. Despite his sympathy for the siblings, Bernie warns them against deliberately getting into trouble in order to escape their foster parents.  The next morning, Friday leaves to look for food, only to be caught by Animal Control. Andi and Bruce go into a local pet shop to see if anybody has seen him, and meet Dave and Heather, who advise them to check the pound. They learn that Friday is there but cannot be claimed without their parents present, so they bribe the guard to get Friday back. While walking home, they flee from a crime scene and find Friday taking shelter in an abandoned hotel, where they find a tiny Boston Terrier and an English Mastiff. They name them Georgia and Lenny and leave Friday at the hotel for the night.  Bruce stays at the hotel to keep the dogs quiet, while Andi gets some food for the dogs, where she runs into Dave and Heather again. Andi lies to them that their parents often rescue dogs, causing Dave to ask her to take in three more dogs that nobody seems to want to adopt, which she reluctantly agrees. With six dogs to look after, the friends thought about getting the hotel in a decent state to accommodate the dogs' needs, with help from a local boy named Mark, and rescue more stray dogs to occupy the hotel.  Eventually, Dave invites Andi to a party, which she accepts. Meanwhile, Bruce ends up interrogated by Carl and Lois, having been caught stealing a hairdryer. The party is ruined for Andi when she bumps into Jason, an old acquaintance who reveals to everyone that she and Bruce are orphans. Bruce manages to escape his house, only to find out the hotel is in chaos. Lois and Carl follow him and call the police. The dogs (including Friday) are found and sent to the Pound, while Bruce and Andi are taken away by the police. When Lois and Carl refuse to take Andi and Bruce back, Bernie is forced by state law to send them to separate foster homes.  The dogs are all scheduled to be put down the next day, but Friday manages to escape. He rushes over to find Dave, Heather, and Mark, who in turn, find Andi and Bruce. Meanwhile, Bernie explores the hotel where he finds a dog named Harley, who had managed to avoid getting caught by animal control the previous night. Bernie then realizes why the kids loved doing what they did. Andi and Bruce manage to break into the Pound and release the dogs in an attempt to get them across the county line, where they will be safe. However, the dogs instead make their way back towards the hotel, believing it to be their real home. The strange event attracts the attention of citizens, reporters, and the police, who follow the dogs to the hotel. Before the animal control officers attempt to capture the dogs again, Bernie appears and tells everyone about how Bruce and Andi managed to create a family of dogs and reveals Jake and Max's plans to them. He introduces all the dogs who live at the hotel and tells the heartfelt stories of their past owners, which wins over the crowd and the police allow the children to keep the dogs together.  As people explore the hotel, Bernie reveals to an overjoyed Andi and Bruce that he and his wife have decided to adopt them. Sometime later, the hotel re-opens as a grand "Hotel For Dogs", where people can either adopt strays or board their dogs, while Andi, Bruce, and Friday happily settle into their new family.