Fifteen-year-old Astrid Magnussen, lives in Los Angeles with her free-spirited artist mother Ingrid. Too young to remember her father, she relies heavily upon her self-centered mother. Ingrid's relationship with a writer, Barry, ends when she discovers he is cheating. Murdering him with white oleander poison, Ingrid is incarcerated, leaving Astrid under social services' control. Starr Thomas, a former stripper, recovering alcoholic and born-again Christian is Astrid's first foster mother. Initially interacting well, Astrid is baptised into her church. Ingrid finds out, setting Astrid against them. Believing Astrid is sleeping with Starr's live-in boyfriend Ray, she falls off the wagon. In a drunken rage, she argues with Ray, then shoots Astrid in the shoulder. Starr and Ray disappear; the children beg her not to report her, so Astrid plays along.  Astrid recovers in a hospital before being moved to McKinney Children's Center (aka "Mac"). After fighting with some girls, she befriends fellow artist, Paul Trout. Astrid is placed with former actress, Claire Richards, and her producer husband Mark. Fragile but affectionate, Claire bonds closely with Astrid, who finally thrives. One day, Astrid discovers Ingrid has been corresponding with Claire and insists on meeting. At the prison visit, Ingrid’s jealously exploits Claire's low self-esteem and suspicions over Mark's fidelity, which worsens her depression. Later, a bad fight with Mark makes Claire consider sending Astrid back to MAC. She begs Claire not to, she seems to recant, but ultimately commits suicide later that night, devastating Astrid.  Astrid tells Ingrid of Claire's death, and that she was returned to MAC. Blaming Ingrid for the suicide, Astrid announces she will not visit again. Now back at MAC, Paul tells Astrid that as he turns 18 soon he will move to New York. He asks her to join him but she coldly refuses. Astrid passes up good foster parent candidates for Russian immigrant Rena Gruschenka, who uses kids as laborers for her flea market business. With Rena, she becomes more cold and matches her outward appearance with her inside demeanor. Her mother's attorney Susan Vallares, charmed by her mother approaches Astrid, offering anything she wants in exchange for lying for her mom in court, as her mother has benefactors. As Astrid refuses, Rena tells her she's stupid to turn down money. Rena offers to make her an equal partner in her business, saying she has nowhere better to go but Astrid balks at the idea.   Astrid surprises Ingrid one final time in prison. Her appearance has changed dramatically. In control over her mother for once, Astrid demands answers about her past in exchange for testifying that Barry committed suicide. She hammers her mom with questions about Barry, her father, Claire, and Annie, whom Astrid vaguely recalls from her toddler years. Astrid seeks letters from Paul from a local comic book shop. He soon shows up in LA and they renew their relationship. He accompanies Astrid to her mother's trial and awaits the time to testify. The courtroom empties and she goes to see what happened. Susan explains that Ingrid instructed her to not include Astrid's testimony. Ingrid and Astrid stare at one another as she is led away. Gutted, Astrid watches as her mother is taken back to prison. Paul asks what happened, and she says her mother finally let her go.  Two years later, a blonde-again Astrid lives in NYC with Paul, tending to her art: dioramas in suitcases depicting her life up to that point. As she passes them, she closes each stating she will never visit the horrors they contain again. Pausing at the final one depicting Ingrid, Astrid reflects that although flawed, she knows her mother loves her.