Brett Eisenberg is an ambitious yet unconfident New York City assistant book editor living in the literary hotbed of Manhattan's Upper East Side. Struggling to become a full-fledged editor, she is shocked when she learns that her mentor and boss is fired and replaced by the glamorous Faye Falkner. At a book signing, Brett meets the notorious and much older publishing playboy Archie Knox. After spending time with him she realises how unhappy she is with her immature boyfriend Jed and breaks off their relationship in order to pursue one with Archie.  Archie is an alcoholic, although he is almost three years sober, suffers from diabetes, and has an estranged daughter. The age gap between Brett and him is made clear through their different lifestyles, such as his lack of understanding how to use a Blackberry and Brett taking him to a candy shop. Although this does not affect their relationship in the beginning — Brett appreciates the advice and confidence he gives her to stand up to Faye — she soon begins to resent his patronizing attitude. Brett and Archie fight about him treating her like his daughter, and him not telling her that he used to date Faye. He eventually begins drinking again and sleeps with another woman in order to break off their relationship.  Brett is incredibly close to her father, explaining her situation to him and asking for his advice. While visiting her family home she is shocked to discover that he has cancer and that her family didn't tell her but told her brother Ethan, because her father felt she could not handle the news. Feeling depressed and unwell, Brett makes an awful impression on a celebrity client until Archie appears and rescues the situation. They decide to give their relationship another try and Brett introduces him to her family, who are uneasy with the age difference; her father especially after learning that Archie is an alcoholic when he is admitted to hospital. Brett's father tells her that she shouldn't have to spend her life taking care of Archie.  After her father dies, Brett realizes she must finally deal with her problems without his support. Archie proposes using the Blackberry that Brett bought him but she turns him down, telling him that they see each other as teacher and student and not as equals. She says she needs time to be happy and grow up on her own.  Brett, finally confident in herself, wears a pair of leather pants she was previously too scared to wear. She begins to edit her work in a decisive way by using a pen instead of a pencil, as she used to do throughout the film.