In 1960, Jeannette and Jerry Brinson have recently moved to Great Falls, Montana, with their teenage son Joe. Tensions build after Jerry is fired from a job as a golf pro at a country club. He is offered his old job back but refuses out of pride, and instead of looking for work, he sleeps in his car and watches the local firefighting efforts against a forest fire raging in nearby mountains. To support the family as Jerry looks for a job, Jeannette takes a job as a swimming instructor (although she tries first to get a job teaching at school). Joe gives up football after school to work part-time at a local photography studio. One day, Jerry decides to take a low-paying job fighting the forest fire, which upsets Jeannette and worries Joe. Jeannette speaks openly about her strained marriage with Jerry to Joe, and the stress of the situation takes a minor toll on Joe's school life.  While Jerry is away, Jeannette tells her son they may have to move to a smaller place as they cannot afford their small rented house. She introduces Joe to Warren Miller, a prosperous older man who owns an automobile dealership. She says she taught him to swim and he has offered her a job.  Joe is repeatedly left alone as Jeannette spends time with Miller and Jeannette opens up about her dissatisfaction with her husband's restlessness. Joe wakes one morning and his mother is absent. He goes to Miller's car dealership, but the receptionist does not know who his mother is.  One night, after a dinner hosted by Miller, Miller dances with a drunken Jeannette and kisses her; he spends the night at Joe's house, which a shocked Joe discovers later that night. After Miller leaves, Joe confronts Jeannette about the affair. Jeannette does not admit to caring about Miller or no longer loving Jerry, but concedes that the affair will make their life financially better, and she implores Joe to think of a better plan for her. He tells her that he cannot. The next morning, Joe packs up some of his belongings and heads to a bus stop. As the bus arrives it begins to snow, signaling the end of the wildfires, and Joe returns home.  Jerry returns and is met with a lukewarm reception by Jeannette, who reveals that she has begun renting an apartment in town, and Joe is free to stay with her. Devastated and suspecting an affair, Jerry asks Jeannette to admit to her relationship. Furious upon hearing that Miller slept with Jeannette in the family house, Jerry drunkenly goes to Miller's house and tries to set it ablaze. Miller catches him in the act and confronts him, admonishing him about his behavior with Joe present. When an injured Jerry pleads with Joe to help him escape before the police arrive, Joe flees on foot to the police station, where he discovers his father has not been arrested. Returning to the house, he learns from Jerry that Miller will not press charges, but his parents' marriage is over.  Jeannette moves to Portland, Oregon, to teach, while Joe lives peacefully with Jerry, who has become a successful salesman. Jeannette returns spontaneously one weekend to a strained, but polite, reunion, where she learns Joe has been promoted and is on the honor roll. Joe takes his parents to the photography studio, where he requests that they take a family portrait for his sake. An uncomfortable Jeannette is initially reluctant, but accepts, and the family takes one final portrait together.