The film is presented as a documentary investigating an unexplained accident at an abandoned hotel in the town of Abaddon in Rockland County, New York that was set up as a haunted house.   Fifteen people, including the first group of attendees and the members of the Hell House company that opened the attraction, died in what authorities decreed as an "unknown malfunction".  The documentary crew, led by producer Diane Graves, interview people familiar with the case and find rumors of something supernatural behind the tragedy. The crew tracks down the sole surviving member of the Hell House staff, Sara Havel, who provides them with footage shot in the lead up to the tragedy.  Havel's tapes document the company's arrival at the Abaddon Hotel as they set it up for Halloween. Each employee experiences unexplainable events but Alex, the CEO of the company, is determined to open the attraction. The footage suggests the hotel may have been the site of a Satanic cult. Despite the disturbances, the Hell House group dismisses the activity and opens the attraction. All of the guests and company crew are attacked by supernatural beings and 15 people are killed.  Sara, who is interviewed by the documentary crew in a nearby hotel, asks for a break from filming. She tells Diane she will be in her hotel room - room 2C - if the team has questions. She also suggests the crew should break into the Abaddon to see for themselves what happened inside. Soon after, Diane attempts to leave a message at the hotel reception desk for Sara, but reception informs her that no one under Sara’s name is registered as a guest and there is no room 2C at that hotel.  Diane and her cameraman decide to visit the Abaddon Hotel site. Mitchell, a member of the documentary film crew, stays behind to catalogue Sara's footage. He sees something that deeply disturbs him, but is hidden from the audience, and tries to call Diane but cannot get through.  Diane and her cameraman break in and see the aftermath of what unfolded that night. They go to the second floor, where they see a room labeled '2C', the same room Sara said she was staying in. When they enter the room, they find Sara sitting with her back to them. Diane and her cameraman try to flee but are attacked by a ghoulish Sara and other ghostly figures.  It is revealed that what Mitchell saw  was a possessed member of Hell House killing Sara; she has been dead the whole time they had been speaking to her, and there were, in fact, no survivors.