Adrienne and Matteo are a couple with a child and home together, experiencing strife within themselves. While driving away from a party, their arguing causes an accident that leaves them hospitalized. They each experience memories of their past involving trauma while in a surreal state. In this state, Adrienne is convinced that she died during the accident and is saddened by the life and relationship she lost, but Matteo tells her she is not dead. She refuses to believe him, despairing over the end of her life, arguing over what-ifs and what happened and what could have been, while Matteo doggedly keeps her focused on loving him and living for him and their baby, Ellie. As they walk through the many memories that lead to the accident, Matteo explains his faults and feelings for her.   Floundering over the painful truths of their limited time and lost opportunities, she attempts to jump over the building, unsure whether she is really dead or alive. Matteo stops her, convincing her she is not dead and that they still have time together. She trusts him again and takes his hand. He asks her to marry him. They get married, and they have a beautiful wedding.   Adrienne wakes up and is playing with her baby. Her parents are fussing over her, and her friend Maggie arrives to help with Ellie while she goes to her doctor’s appointment. Her mother appears to want to talk about her state of mind, but Adrienne assures her she is fine. She passes the scene of their accident, and memories begin to flood her consciousness. She remembers the accident. Matteo died, not her. The truth is too painful for her to process and she goes through the grief all over again.   As time passes, she eventually gets better and moves on and raises Ellie. She realizes Matteo helped her to want to live for their child and wanted the opportunity to let her know how much he loved her. At the end, Adrienne takes Ellie for a boat ride in the sunrise at the ocean, and she sprinkles Mateo's ashes in the ocean and says goodbye.