Osage Nation elders bury a ceremonial pipe, mourning their descendants' assimilation into White  American society. Wandering through their Oklahoma reservation, in the midst of the annual "flower moon" phenomenon of fields of blooms,As the following reference notes, larger plants may kill off smaller ones around May, with symbolic meaning relevant to the film.  several Osage find oil gushing from the ground. The tribe becomes wealthy, as it retains mineral rights and members share in oil-lease revenues, though law requires white court-appointed legal guardians to manage the money of full and half-blood members, assuming them "incompetent".  In 1919, Ernest Burkhart returns from World War I to live with his brother Byron and uncle William King Hale on Hale's large reservation ranch. Hale, a reserve deputy sheriff/cattle rancher popularly called "King", poses as a friendly benefactor of the Osage, speaking their language and bestowing gifts. He suggests that Ernest court Mollie Kyle, an Osage whose family owns oil headrights. Ernest, who alongside Byron has been committing armed robbery against the Osage, meets Mollie via his day job as a cab driver. A romance develops, and the two marry in a ceremony mixing Roman Catholic and Osage traditions. Over time, they raise three children.  Hale secretly orders the contract killings of multiple wealthy Osage. He explains that Ernest will inherit more headrights if more of Mollie's family dies. Mollie is diabetic, and her mother Lizzie is ill. After Mollie's sister Minnie dies of a mysterious illness, Hale orders Byron to kill Mollie's other sister, the rebellious Anna. Lizzie and the Osage council blame the reservation's white residents and urge the tribe to fight back.  A newsreel of the 1921 Tulsa race massacre, in which white people destroyed a black community and killed numerous residents, causes further concern amongst the Osage that they could suffer similarly. Lizzie sees her ancestors welcome her to the afterlife as she dies. Hale orders Ernest to murder Henry Roan, Mollie's first husband, to collect on his life insurance. However, Ernest botches the assassination and Hale brutally paddles him inside a Masonic temple as punishment.  Hale is the local political boss, and both the local sheriff and judges are in his pocket, so no investigations are made. An Osage Nation representative seeking to lobby Congress is murdered in Washington, D.C. Mollie discreetly hires private detective William J. Burns, but Ernest and Byron beat him and run him off of the reservation.  Hale orders Ernest to murder Reta, Mollie's last remaining sister, and her husband by having criminal Acie Kirby blow up her house. Mollie inherits all her family's headrights. Despite her illness, Mollie travels to Washington with an Osage delegation and asks President Calvin Coolidge for help. Because of this, Hale orders Ernest to poison Mollie's insulin to "slow her down". Mollie's condition worsens, and Ernest sometimes uses the poison himself from shame.   Due to Mollie's lobbying, the Bureau of Investigation (BOI) sends Agent Thomas Bruce White Sr. and assistants to investigate; they quickly find out the truth. Hale tries to cover his tracks by murdering his own hitmen, including Acie, but White arrests Hale and Ernest. The agents find Mollie severely ill and get her proper medical care.  White persuades Ernest Burckhart to confess and turn state's evidence against his uncle. W. S. Hamilton, Hale's attorney, tries to convince Ernest to claim he was tortured and recant. However, after one of his daughters dies of whooping cough, Ernest testifies against his uncle. Hale unsuccessfully tries to have his nephew murdered. Mollie meets with Ernest after he testifies, but decides to leave him after he refuses to admit to poisoning her.  A radio drama years later reveals the aftermath:  • Ernest and Hale were convicted and received life sentences. Both were paroled after years of incarceration, despite Osage protests to the parole board.  • Byron served no prison time due to a hung jury.  • The Shoun brothers, who gave Ernest the heroin for Mollie and were implicated in other "wasting deaths", were never prosecuted due to lack of evidence.  • Mollie divorced Ernest, married a man named John Cobb, and died of diabetes in 1937 at the age of 50. She was buried with her parents, sisters and daughter. Her obituary did not mention the Osage murders.  The film closes with an overhead view of a 21st-century Osage powwow dancing circle.