Two masked wrestlers, one named "Boa" the other "Python", are grappling in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Enjoying this spectacle is multi-millionaire casino owner Broddick (Adam Kendrick) and his girlfriend Eve (Angel Boris). Their night out is interrupted by a phone call. The caller, Ramon informs Broddick at York, Pennsylvania that his "package" has arrived overseas from South America and is being delivered. Broddick is delighted and promises lucrative compensation to Ramon for his work.  During the journey, whatever is sealed inside the back of the truck has awakened and become enraged. Ramon stops the convoy and gets a tranquilizer gun, ordering a panel to be opened. Unfortunately, a serpentine tail smashes through the panel and begins to wreak havoc. One of the men is startled and fires his gun, accidentally hitting the main control circuit on the back of the truck. The main door of the sealed container opens, and an abnormally large, nightmarish reticulated python, about  long and , emerges and kills the group. Ramon detonates a bomb in the process, destroying the convoy, but not the snake.  Broddick reveals his plan to bring extreme big-game hunting to the city, as yet another pastime for the mega-wealthy, and the python is to be the quarry.  Broddick then sees a news report detailing the destruction of Ramon's convoy. Now realizing the python has escaped, Broddick decides to bring his big-game hunting associates to their prey.  24 miles outside Philadelphia, FBI Agent Alan Sharpe (Kirk B.R. Woller) investigates the wrecked convoy and discovers a large snake scale on the wreckage. Quickly realizing what he is up against (Agent Sharpe is familiar with the events in the film Python), Sharpe is determined to prevent the snake from killing more people. He enlists herpetologist Dr. Steven Emmett (David Hewlett) and marine biologist Monica Bonds (Jaime Bergman) to devise a plan to stop the python. They plan to merge Monica's dolphin-camera headgear and tracking system to Dr. Emmett's giant  long, , genetically enhanced Scarlet Boa named Betty. They hope Betty will seek out and kill the python.  The trio, now joined by a backup team of FBI agents and US Army soldiers, transports Betty to the water treatment facility. She quickly enters and begins to track the python. The tracking system proves faulty, providing only sporadic coverage.  Broddick and his surviving hunters enter the opposite end of the treatment facility and begin to track the reptile. They are surprised when they stumble upon a nest of eggs, guarded by Betty, whom they had not expected to see. Betty constricts Eve, killing her, which causes Broddick to snap. Eventually, he makes his way out alone, the rest of his team being killed by both snakes while Sharpe is accidentally killed by one of them. Broddick finally meets up with Dr. Emmett and Monica. The python devours the eggs, enraging Betty, who engages the python in a fight.  Broddick is taken into custody. The tracking system starts to function again, and Dr. Emmett finally sees Betty's nest. He decides to go back into the treatment facility to save the nest. Monica goes with him. Broddick, however, has sneaked away and commandeered an APC. Dr. Emmett and Monica, using the tracking system, track Betty to a nightclub. Betty smashes through the floor, as does the giant python. The two snakes grab Broddick and, in a vicious and bloody tug-of-war, bisect him, each devouring their half. The two snakes continue their battle underneath the disco, with Dr. Emmett and Monica hot on their trail.  The battling snakes end up fighting on subway tracks. Betty is winning, but a train is about to run over both combatants. Betty is saved by Dr. Emmett, who activates an electrical spike device he implanted into her head. The shock throws her off the tracks just as a speeding bullet train slams into the python and beheads the beast. Dr. Emmett and Monica celebrate the death of the python, but become concerned when it is revealed Betty has crawled away. The duo heads back into the treatment facility to bring Betty and her remaining eggs home.