In December 1970, Paul Hunham is a strict, hidebound classics professor at Barton Academy, the New England boarding school that he once attended on scholarship. His students and fellow teachers dislike him for his harsh grading and stern attitude. Hunham's headmaster, Woodrup, berates him when he costs the academy an important donor by failing his son in his class, prompting Princeton University to rescind his offer of admission.   As punishment, Hunham is forced to supervise the "holdover" students left on campus for the holidays, including Angus Tully, whose mother abruptly cancelled a trip to Saint Kitts to honeymoon with his new stepfather. Also staying behind is cafeteria administrator Mary Lamb, who is grieving the loss of her son, a Barton alumnus killed serving in the Vietnam War.  To their dismay, Hunham imposes studying and exercise on the holdovers' break. After six days, the wealthy father of one of them arrives by helicopter and agrees to take all the students on the family's ski trip. Angus, unable to reach his parents for permission, is left alone at Barton with Hunham and Mary. Hunham catches him trying to arrange a hotel room, leading to a chase around the school until Angus defiantly leaps into a pile of gym equipment, dislocating his arm. At the hospital, Angus lies to protect Hunham from blame. Hunham later flirts with deputy headmistress Lydia Crane after meeting her at a restaurant, and she invites the pair to her Christmas Eve Party. He then deters Angus from an argument with a disabled war veteran.    On Christmas Eve, Angus, Hunham, Mary, and Barton's janitor, Danny, attend Lydia's party. While Angus flirts with Lydia's niece while finger-painting, Hunham is disappointed to discover Lydia has a significant other, and an inebriated Mary breaks down in the kitchen over her son's death. Hunham insists on leaving early, despite protests from Angus, who angrily blurts out that his father is dead, causing Mary to chastise Hunham for his insensitivity.  Having reflected upon his behavior, Hunham puts together a small Christmas celebration, and with Mary's persuasion, grants Angus's wish for a "field trip" to Boston. Dropping Mary off in Roxbury to spend time with her pregnant sister, Angus and Hunham bond over various activities in Boston, including ice skating and a visit to the Museum of Fine Arts. They bump into one of Hunham's classmates from Harvard University, who has become a successful academic. When prompted, Hunham lies about his career, with Angus playing along. After incessant questioning, Hunham confesses to Angus that he was expelled from Harvard after assaulting a peer, the son of a legacy donor who framed him for plagiarism, which ruined his career prospects. Thanks to the charity of one of his former teachers, he was able to secure a teaching position at Barton.  In the morning, Hunham discovers that he and Angus both suffer from depression after noticing that they take the same anti-depressant. When they go to see Little Big Man at the Orpheum Theatre, Angus sneaks away and Hunham catches him entering a taxi. Angus explains that his father is actually alive and confined at a nearby sanatorium. Hunham takes Angus to see his father, whose mental illness drove his family apart. Over dinner, he reassures an anxious Angus that he is not fated to be like his father. They join Mary and Danny to celebrate New Year's Eve, watching the Times Square Ball drop on TV and setting off an M-80 firework in the school kitchen.  When school resumes in January 1971, Hunham is summoned to Woodrup's office, confronted by Angus's mother and stepfather. They tell him that Angus's visit to his father was unauthorized and that the snow globe Angus gave him, which he stole from Lydia's party, led his father to have a violent episode. The mother and stepfather plan to send Angus to military school, but Hunham stands up for Angus and takes the blame for the trip. He is fired, but Angus is allowed to stay at Barton; Hunham decides to finally pursue his lifelong dream of visiting the ruins of Carthage.  Mary, who has come to better terms with the loss of her son, gives Hunham a notebook for the monograph he had long wanted to write. He and Angus share a heartfelt goodbye. Leaving the school, Hunham drinks the cognac he stole from the headmaster, before spitting some of it out toward the school and driving away.