While on the road, seeking vengeance for the murder of their father, brothers Miles and Dominic rob a store.  The owner shoots Miles in the hand before they kill him.  Dominic improvises a bandage for Miles, and they rest for the night in the desert.  When Miles expresses doubt in their mission, Dominic angrily threatens to leave him to die in the desert.  The brothers continue on after reconciling.  While asleep in their car, Miles is surprised by several armed men.  After beating him, they announce that they intend to kill him and steal his car.  Before they can, Dominic returns and kills all three despite Miles' pleas for the killing to end.  Miles and Dominic arrive at a small town, where they encounter an old man walking down the street.  The man initially refuses to speak to them, but he seems willing to help once they offer him food.  After he surprises them by puncturing one of the car's tires with a knife, Dominic begins beating him.  A young woman, Vijah, stops him at gunpoint and ushers the two into her house, where she performs first aid on Miles.  Vijah explains that the town's leader, Doyle, is dangerous, and they should all stay inside her house for their safety; Dominic ignores her warnings.  While exploring the ruins of the town, Dominic encounters Sasha, who seduces him.  As they have sex, Sasha's boyfriend, Latos, appears.  While Sasha holds Dominic at gunpoint, Latos grabs Miles and chastises Vijah for hiding the brothers from Doyle.  Latos beats Dominic with a baseball bat but leaves the killing blow to Doyle.  Latos forces Miles to watch as Doyle murders his brother.  When Doyle later questions Miles in his office about why the brothers have trespassed in his territory, Miles refuses to cooperate, to Vijah's concern.  Noticing this, Doyle and his gang taunt her.  Doyle himself slashes one of her ears to teach her a lesson about loyalty.  Latos delivers food to Miles and says they are interested in having Miles  join their gang.  Latos explains Dominic was too obviously strong-willed and independent to be of use to them.  When Miles is again uncooperative, Latos taunts him with the insinuation that the food is his brother's flesh.  Vijah later visits Miles, and gives him a shard of glass.  The two caress each other wordlessly, and he observes her scarred ear.  Doyle invites everyone to a dinner.  Miles, finding Dominic's head on a platter, grows enraged as Doyle's gang noisily eats and taunts him.  Miles draws the glass shard and stabs Sasha in the throat.  Latos jumps on him and begins eating his face as Doyle impassively watches Sasha die.  Vijah kills Latos, but another gang member takes her hostage.  Doyle unceremoniously kills the gang member and takes Vijah hostage himself.  Miles shoots Vijah in the gut; the bullet passes through her and kills both her and Doyle.  After tenderly shutting her eyes, Miles points the gun at the old man encountered earlier, who has also been eating Dominic's flesh.  As the man whimpers wordlessly, Miles lowers the gun and leaves.