Clay is an unemployed photographer, living in Los Angeles with his wife, Whitney. When she leaves town for a work trip, he promises he'll get out of the house and take some photos. Clay tries a get-rich-quick scheme to pay rent, staging a fake open house in his apartment.  While shooting photos of a mattress spray painted with the phrase "5G killed my dog", Clay notices a man in the background and is annoyed that he is ruining the shot. Whit is pleased that Clay sees him and he insists on tagging along. The two are old friends from high school, but Clay had ignored Whit's texts when they separately moved to LA. Whit fills Clay in on his success as an actor in small indie roles.   The two spend the night at Clay's house, where Whit feigns drinking alcohol and falling asleep. In the morning, Clay asks Whit to leave, but Whit insists that he cannot: he's dead, unable to open doors or hold anything, and Clay is the only person that has been able to see or hear him since becoming a ghost. Clay takes a Polaroid of Whit and becomes distressed when the photo develops and Whit is not pictured.  Clay allows Whit to spend time with him while Whitney is out of town. Clay convinces Budd to bring him to a private poker game hosted by Arnold. Whit looks at everyone's cards undetected and communicates their contents to Clay. As they return home, Clay is attacked in an alley by a man he scammed at the open house. The man disappears into dust.  When Whitney returns to LA, Clay asks Whit to give him a week to figure out how to integrate Whit into his life, since Whitney cannot see or hear Whit. Whit reluctantly agrees to give Clay space and follows Belle, who had been the hostess at Arnold's game, home with her date.   In the morning, Clay tells Whitney that he got a job through his friend. He drives out of LA with Whit, where the two rent a cabin and attempt to devise a plan for Whit's undetected presence in Clay's life.  Clay leaves the cabin door open so Whit can come and go as he pleases. During a power outage, Clay is convinced that Whit has the ability to shut the lights off and accuses him of killing the man in the alley and other poltergeist powers. In the morning, Clay hides a broken statue of the cabin owner's beloved horse in the attic. Whit expresses gratitude for Clay's friendship and confesses that he is not a successful actor: he was a street performer dressed like Heath Ledger's Joker who was beaten to death by fellow performers dressed as Pennywise and Deadpool.  Clay and Whit share an awkward apology and Clay encourages Whit to check out the attic. Clay closes the attic ladder behind him. Whit, unable to escape, screams and begs Clay to let him out. Clay collects his things, gets in his car, and drives away.