The beautiful orphan Roxanne attends the theater with the old, vain and showy Duke De Guiche, who is determined to marry her. Roxanne wishes to marry for love, even though she does not have much money and would benefit greatly from marriage to a duke. While taking her seat, she and newly-recruited soldier, Christian de Neuvillette, see each other and  are instantly infatuated. As the play begins, Roxanne's childhood friend, the dwarf Cyrano de Bergerac, objects to the lead actor and chases him off the stage with rhyming insults, then duels a man who mocks Cyrano's physical condition (the famous 'nose monologue' in Rostand's original work is replaced by another text).  Roxanne fails to realize that Cyrano is desperately in love with her. She tells Cyrano she has fallen for Christian and asks him to arrange a meeting. Though heartbroken, Cyrano meets Christian and discovers he is inarticulate and incapable of expressing his feelings. Not wanting to disappoint Roxanne, he writes countless letters expressing his own deep feelings for her, which Christian delivers as his own writing.  When Christian and Roxanne meet in person, he is unable to match Cyrano's powerful words that caused her to fall in love with Christian. Roxanne declares she needs more than simple platitudes and storms off. Later, Cyrano helps Christian make amends by hiding in the shadows and whispering what to say to Roxanne. She forgives Christian as a priest delivers a letter from De Guiche, declaring that he will either marry her or have his way with her. Roxanne and Christian hastily marry, infuriating De Guiche, who arranges for Christian and Cyrano's unit to be sent to the war front.  While at war, Cyrano sends Roxanne a letter from Christian every day and risks his own life to keep Christian alive. De Guiche eventually sends their unit on a suicide mission, and Cyrano reveals he has already written a final letter to Roxanne. Christian sees the letter is stained with tears and realizes Cyrano loves Roxanne, and that the man Roxanne really loves is Cyrano. He asks Cyrano to tell Roxanne everything. He then runs out to meet the enemy's guns and is killed.  Three years later, Cyrano is impoverished and in ill-health from war wounds that never fully healed. Roxanne remains his close friend. Sensing he is about to die, Cyrano meets with Roxanne and asks for Christian's final letter. He recites it from memory, revealing he wrote all of Christian's letters. Cyrano and Roxanne declare their love for each other just before he dies in her arms.