In Massachusetts during the 1960s, Eileen Dunlop is a young woman working in a corrections facility for teenage boys. At work, Eileen is shunned by her colleagues and fantasizes about one of the guards. At home, Eileen lives with her widowed and alcoholic father, Jim, a former chief of police who suffers from paranoia and is emotionally abusive towards her. Eileen frequently daydreams about killing herself and her father.  A new psychologist, Rebecca Saint John, joins the prison staff. Eileen is immediately drawn to Rebecca's intellectual conversation and glamorous appearance. Rebecca begins working with an inmate, Lee Polk, who was imprisoned for stabbing his father to death. Rebecca invites Lee's mother, Rita, to speak with her and Lee, but Rita soon leaves distraught after Lee refused to speak with her. That evening, Rebecca invites Eileen to a local bar. Following a night of drinking and dancing, Rebecca kisses Eileen before leaving.  The next morning, Eileen wakes in her car to find that Jim has locked her out of the house. As she cleans vomit from the seat of her car, a local policeman arrives to inform her that the neighbors have raised complaints about Jim's violent and erratic behavior. As a consequence, Jim has agreed to relinquish his gun into Eileen's care. At work, Eileen is upset to learn that Rebecca has already left for the Christmas holiday. Eileen spends the day sleeping on Rebecca's desk.  On Christmas Eve, Eileen receives a call from Rebecca, inviting her to her house for drinks. When Eileen arrives, they share a drink, but a panicked Rebecca eventually reveals that they are actually in the Polks' house. Rebecca, suspecting that Lee was sexually abused by his father, had arrived to question Rita. The conversation became heated and, following a scuffle during which they fell into the basement, Rebecca tied Rita up and drugged her. She now plans to coerce Rita into admitting involvement in her son's abuse, with Eileen as a witness. Eileen reluctantly agrees to help, retrieving her father's gun from her car.  In the basement, Rita breaks down after being threatened by Eileen. She admits that, although initially oblivious to her husband's abuse of Lee, she eventually became aware after walking in on her husband in Lee's room. Feeling powerless to stop the abuse, and enjoying her husband's renewed interest in her, Rita instead enabled her husband by giving Lee an enema and bathing him before he went to bed.  As Rita finishes her story, Eileen shoots her in the shoulder; Eileen and Rebecca drug Rita into unconsciousness. Amid Rebecca's unease, Eileen suggests framing Jim for the shooting and running away together, confessing her love for Rebecca. The two load Rita into Eileen's car, and agree to meet at Eileen's house. Rebecca does not show up, and as dawn breaks, Eileen drives to a remote forest and leaves the still-drugged Rita in her car, which fills with engine smoke. Eileen then returns to the main road and hitches a ride, smiling to herself as she leaves the town.