Bill is a young man whose daily routines, perceptions, and dreams are illustrated onscreen through multiple split-screen windows, which are in turn narrated (by Don Hertzfeldt). Bill suffers from an unnamed illness which interferes with his seemingly mundane life. Bill often has meetings with his ex-girlfriend and had been recently referred to a clinic for his condition. He begins to have intense hallucinations, falling deeper into his illness.  To help him recuperate, Bill's mother comes to take care of him. Bill is then taken to a hospital, where his health fluctuates, confusing his doctor. Bill's doctor concludes that Bill will not die, surprising and inconveniencing his relatives. Bill then goes back to work.  The film flashes back to Bill's childhood, with the Narrator explaining the death of Bill's half-brother Randall, who disappeared into the sea as a child. After Randall's death, Bill's mother soon became fiercely protective of Bill and rarely left home, eventually causing Bill's stepfather to leave. The Narrator also details the history of Bill's family, many of whom suffered from mental illness and died in unpleasant ways.  A few days after leaving the hospital, Bill receives a call telling him that his mother had died in a "fit of senile hysterics." Bill sees his doctor again, unexpectedly finding nothing wrong with him. On his way to lunch, Bill suffers a seizure and collapses. During the seizure, various memories of his infancy and childhood flash before him. Bill is again taken to the hospital, where his ex-girlfriend frequently visits him. Bill's new doctor questions him, revealing that Bill cannot remember basic information about his life. Bill has a brain exam, after which he is asked various questions and shown photographs that appear irregular or nonsensical.  Bill's doctor explains that Bill is having trouble understanding past tense and present tense, and it is implied that many of his childhood memories and family history could have been confabulated. Bill is allowed to go home for family care but, when he arrives home, no one is there to take care of him. He starts to repeat and then forget various tasks, such as buying food and taking walks, and he does not seem to understand that he is ill. Bill's doctor eventually explains that he doesn't have long to live.  Bill's outlook on life starkly changes, and he notices more of life's small details. This change is complemented by a change in the film's animation: full-color photography is merged into the scenery. Bill rents a car and drives to his childhood home on instinct. His uncle gives him an address to a nursing home, where Bill can find his real father, whom he has not seen since childhood. After spending time with his father, Bill forgives him, and then leaves to continue driving. Feeling his health deteriorating further, Bill stops to lie underneath a tree, and the screen cuts to black.  The Narrator realizes that Bill may die there and refuses to believe that he will. Instead, Bill becomes immortal and goes on to accomplish many wonderful achievements. He then outlives the human race and the earth's future inhabitants, surviving until the slow death of the universe, watching the stars blink out one at a time.