In Sheffield, England, Jamie New, a gay boy, lives with his single mother Margaret, and attends Mayfield school on his 16th birthday. At school, his teacher rebukes the pupils for their unrealistic career plans. Jamie pretends to agree with her, but secretly he dreams of being a drag queen onstage ("And You Don't Even Know It").  Margaret goes to see her friend Ray to help her prepare for Jamie's birthday party. Jamie's estranged father, Wayne, who has lived with his girlfriend Cheryl for some time, is expected to arrive at the party, but at the last minute he messages Margaret to cancel his appearance. Jamie arrives and Margaret lies about his absence, pretending he gave him a card. Margaret presents Jamie a pair of expensive red high heels that he has been saving up money for. Jamie is disappointed about his father's absence and reminisces about their strained relationship and an unspecified hurtful small comment made in his childhood that he is still struggling to overcome ("Wall in My Head").  At school, Jamie shows the heels to his best friend Pritti Pasha - a girl constantly harassed for her religion - and confesses his desire to be a drag queen. After class bully Dean Paxton insults Jamie and Pritti for their differences and Jamie sticks up for Pritti, Pritti returns the favour by encouraging Jamie to wear the shoes to the school prom and be the drag queen he wants to be ("Spotlight").  Margaret goes to see Wayne at his girlfriend Cheryl's house, and admonishes him for not showing up for Jamie at all on his sixteenth birthday and for his lack of parental efforts. Wayne replies that Cheryl is pregnant with their son and urges Margaret to tell Jamie the truth - that he is bitterly disappointed that Jamie is not a stereotype male, and that he wants nothing at all to do with him, especially as Jamie is now no longer a minor.  Jamie goes to a drag shop, House of Loco, where he intends to find his first dress. Hugo Battersby, the drag shop owner, briefly discusses Jamie's dreams of being a drag queen with him, and reveals that he was himself once a drag superstar, Miss Loco Chanelle, and that his past was filled with a loving drag family that was destroyed when the AIDS epidemic ravaged the community and claimed the life of his male lover ("This Was Me"). He describes drag as a form of revolution, and that a drag queen is never deterred. He offers to mentor  Jamie, and to help him with his plan of coming out at the prom by allowing Jamie to debut at a drag show at the local club. He tells Jamie and Pritti that he will give Loco Chanelle's dress to him if he can earn it. Jamie informs his mother and Ray of the visit to the shop and his upcoming drag show, and over the next few weeks earns enough money to buy the dress. Meanwhile, Margaret struggles to tell Jamie about her encounter with his father, and is unable to break his heart by telling him his father's true feelings. Jamie mistakenly believes that his father will attend the drag show.  At school on the day of the show, Jamie beckons Pritti into the school toilets and begs for her help in getting rid of a badly painted eyebrow he accidentally gave himself. Pritti reluctantly agrees to help him, but before she can manage Hedge catches them. After embarrassedly attempting to explain the eyebrow incident, Hedge humiliates Jamie by demanding he return to class with his makeup intact ("Work of Art"). When Jamie arrives in art class, his classmates ridicule him, and he responds by telling them about his drag show, determined not to be shamed ("Work of Art (Reprise)")  After school, Dean calls out Jamie, intending to go to the show and humiliate him. Jamie goes to the club but gets cold feet and attempts to back out, but is stopped by Hugo dressed up as Loco Chanelle, who encouraged him to perform and dresses him up along with the other drag queens ("Over the Top"). Margaret and Ray arrive at the show, along with Dean and his friends who intend to ridicule Jamie's drag performance, and Margaret sends Jamie flowers and a card which she pretends is from Wayne, which Jamie is thrilled to receive. In an attempt to come up with his drag name, Jamie cries frustratedly, "it's about me. Me. Me!", leading Hugo to introduce Jamie as "Mimi Me". He performs a lip synced song as Mimi Me – Dean and the boys heckle him briefly but are quickly removed, and Mimi Me finishes the number in style, with Pritti and his mother in the audience.  The next day at school, the whole school gossips about the drag show ("Everybody's Talking About Jamie"). Jamie arrives to class late in dramatic fashion and with make-up, which Hedge orders him to remove, and Jamie refuses, quoting school dress rules and mocking her. Dean gets into a fight with Jamie, and declares he will not attend prom if Jamie comes as Mimi Me. At a meeting with the head teacher, Hedge demands that Jamie not wear a dress to prom and claims he will selfishly ruin the special night for everyone else. Jamie leaves, upset.  Jamie goes to Pritti's house for consolation, but Pritti urges Jamie to be himself at prom, and that Mimi Me doesn't have to always be in his life. Jamie reveals his bodily self-loathing without Mimi Me, and Pritti comforts him by revealing that in Arabic, his name - Jamil - means beautiful ("It Means Beautiful"). Newly confident, Jamie goes to visit his father to thank him for the flowers, and Wayne harshly reveals the truth about Margaret's lies, and his own disinterest and disappointment, telling him he had always longed for a better son.  Jamie returns home and confronts Margaret. He rips his Loco Chanelle dress and speaks cruelly, before storming off. Margaret, alone, reminisces about the joys and difficulties of having Jamie as a son ("He's My Boy"). Jamie, in an angry and confused downward spiral, shoplifts alcohol, gets drunk, and sneaks into a sports game that Wayne is attending, going onto the field to briefly reveal himself to his father in partial drag. He is physically harassed and shoved off the field. Beaten and bloody, Jamie goes to Hugo's shop after it is shut, where Hugo bathes his injured nose and comforts him.  Jamie comes home. He and Margaret apologize to each other and reconcile over their differences, as well as briefly discussing Jamie's queer personality ("My Man, My Boy"). On prom night, Year 11 prepare for the event. Pritti arrives in makeup and fends off Dean's bullying with an inspiring speech, reminding Dean that after school ends tomorrow, he will no longer be a big man in a small social world. Jamie arrives, not in drag or as Mimi Me, but as himself, Jamie, dressed in a traditional girls’ prom dress with no makeup.  Hedge admonishes Jamie, and won't allow him into prom, but his classmates, led by Pritti, rally their support and eventually Hedge relents and allows everyone in. After sharing a moment together, Pritti goes into prom while Jamie implores Dean to let bygones be bygones and dance with him before prom ends. The class celebrate together and support each other ("Out of the Darkness (A Place Where We Belong)").