At a video game arcade in 1982, Will Cooper watches his friend Sam Brenner seemingly lose a championship game of Donkey Kong to an obnoxious and arrogant opponent, Eddie "The Fireblaster" Plant. Videocassette footage of the event is included in a time capsule launched into space.  In the present day, Sam is an electronics installer while Will is the President of the United States. Meanwhile in Guam, Andersen Air Force Base is besieged by an extraterrestrial force attacking in the form of Galaga and a soldier is abducted.  Sam works at the home of divorced U.S. Army lieutenant colonel Violet van Patten, and the two are separately summoned to the White House by Will. Upon seeing the video footage of the attack and meeting with Ludlow "The Wonder Kid" Lamonsoff, Sam concludes that aliens have somehow mistaken the time capsule videocassette as a declaration of war and appear to be attacking Earth with large replicas of famous arcade game icons. The aliens interrupt a television broadcast using footage from the cassette, challenging the people of Earth to a best-out-of-five battle for the fate of humanity and that Earth had already lost the first match. The aliens give a hint to where the next attack will be held, which is on the Taj Mahal in the form of Arkanoid, but Sam and Will are unable to get people to listen and Earth loses the second match.  Sam and Ludlow train Navy SEALs to play the games. Violet develops directed energy weapons that are effective against the aliens. The team later heads to London, where the aliens attack Hyde Park in the form of Centipede. As the soldiers begin to lose, Sam and Ludlow step in. Will gives orders to have the geeks take over and Sam and Ludlow manage to win the match with their shooting skills. A congratulatory message is sent by the aliens with an "achievement trophy" in the form of the Duck Hunt dog, which ends up with an old woman and licks her.  Eddie is freed from a prison sentence to assist in New York City. He agrees to help under the condition that he gets to meet Serena Williams and Martha Stewart. There, the team must fight as ghosts against a giant Pac-Man. Toru Iwatani, creator of Pac-Man, tries to reason with Pac-Man peacefully but gets his hand bitten off before running away and telling the others to kill Pac-Man. Sam, Ludlow, and Eddie ride in modified Mini Cooper cars, and Violet notices Eddie moving at supersonic speeds around the board. Sam is able to trick Pac-Man into going after him once the effects of a power pellet runs out, winning the game. They are presented with Q*Bert as a trophy. During a celebratory party however, the aliens announce that someone cheated in the last game and that Earth has therefore forfeited from the best-of-five challenge, giving the aliens the win by default. They sign off declaring humanity's extinction. Violet's son Matty discovers that Eddie was the one that got Earth disqualified by using a cheat code written on the inside of his glasses during the battle against Pac-Man. Not only that, but Eddie also reveals that he also did it as a kid during the gaming tournament, which was how he beat Sam at Donkey Kong. Eddie flees while Matty is abducted by the aliens.  The aliens launch a massive attack on Washington, D.C. using an army of video game characters and enemies. Will joins the team, while Ludlow stays to fight. An alien takes the form of "Lady Lisa", a video game character on whom Ludlow has had a crush since childhood, and attacks him. Before Lisa could kill Ludlow, he manages to persuade her to choose love and side with him. Meanwhile, Eddie, wishing to make amends, returns to join the fight. Sam, Violet, and Will are summoned to the aliens' mothership for one last chance to save Earth by facing their leader, who takes the form of Donkey Kong. The trio are put on the starting level with the Donkey Kong and the aliens' captives at the top level. As the group dodges barrels and fireballs, Sam realizes that the patterns are random and starts losing hope. That is until Matty reveals that Eddie cheated against Sam at Donkey Kong. Upon Sam realizing that he was the world's best Donkey Kong player, his spirit is restored, allowing him to keep fighting and avoid the rolling barrels. Once Sam defeats Donkey Kong, the aliens' forces, including Lisa, disappear from Earth.  The team is hailed as heroes, and Will manages to reach a peace agreement with the aliens. Eddie apologizes to Sam for cheating and praises him as the best player in Donkey Kong under the threat of going back to prison. Although Ludlow is devastated that Lisa is gone, Q*Bert transforms its likeness to Lady Lisa. Sam and Violet become a couple while Eddie gets a message to meet Serena Williams and Martha Stewart back in the White House. The aliens restore everything on Earth, including Iwatani's hand, before their departure. A year later, Lady Lisa and Ludlow marry and have Q*Bert-like children.