A decade after the events of the first three films, survivor of the Honey Island Swamp massacre Andrew Yong is told by his publicist Kathleen that he has been offered a special interview for a true crime TV series, but that that the producers have insisted that his interview take place in the Honey Island Swamp. Andrew initially refuses to go due to his trauma from his experience with Victor Crowley, but is convinced when Kathleen tells him they have offered him $600,000, and she got them to go up to $1,000,000.  Andrew and Kathleen head out on a private charter plane, where Andrew learns that his interview will be hosted by his ex-wife Sabrina and her crew: audio technician Austin, his videographer girlfriend Casey, makeup artist Jay, and production assistant Zach. Suddenly, one of the plane's engines explodes during flight, and Jay and Zach are killed as the plane starts plummeting to the ground.  Meanwhile, at the swamp, Chloe, her boyfriend Alex, and her best friend Rose are preparing to film a trailer for a movie they are creating based on the Crowley massacre, alongside eccentric swamp tour guide/local actor Dillon. For the sake of research, Rose begins searching YouTube for videos of people attempting to recite the voodoo curse that originally brought Crowley back to life. Rose and Dillon overhear the plane crashing, and so go off to investigate, while Alex stays behind to calm Chloe down.  At the plane wreckage, Dillon and Rose find that everyone, aside from Jay, Zach and the pilots have managed to survive the crash, but that Casey is trapped under the seats and has water slowly rising around her due to the plane being partially submerged in the swamp. Meanwhile, Rose's phone autoplays a video of Reverend Zombie reciting the voodoo curse, resurrecting Crowley, who kills Alex. Chloe flees and nearly makes it to the plane wreckage, but is severely wounded by Crowley, who leaves her out in the open as bait.  With the survivors having witnessed the attack, Kathleen begins to suffer from a panic attack and flees the plane. Austin attempts to stop her, but he and Kathleen are both killed by Crowley, who then finishes Chloe off and attacks the plane, making it sink further and causing Casey to drown.  As Dillon locks himself in the pilot's cabin, hoping to radio for help, Andrew, Sabrina and Rose all flee in separate directions while Crowley attempts to saw his way into the wreckage. Crowley kills Sabrina and then corners Rose, Dillon and Andrew, who have gotten the plane engine working. Crowley gets stuck in the engine, but before he can free himself, Dillon sacrifices himself by tackling Crowley into the engine, ultimately shredding them both.  The next day, Marybeth Dunston watches a news report about the plane crash, which reports on the discovery of several dead bodies seemingly unrelated to the plane crash. Realizing Crowley has returned, she brandishes a shotgun, saying;   "I've been waiting for you, motherfucker!"