Dr. John Clancy has lived in isolation since the death of his daughter two years before. The psychic is contacted by his friend, Joe Merriwether, an FBI special agent, who asks for his help in tracking down a serial killer with very elaborate methods.   Joe seems unable to convince Clancy, but when his partner Katherine Cowles enters and touches him on the shoulder after giving him the case files, he envisions a violent future event with blood spilling down Katherine's forehead, among other insights into her life. Clancy reluctantly agrees. FBI special agent Cowles, Merriwether's partner, is skeptical of his gift, but is soon convinced otherwise.  The victims are all found to have been suffering from terminal illnesses. Clancy realizes the killer has abilities exceeding his own. Merriwether is shot by the suspect. He says that he was diagnosed with terminal cancer before dying in the hospital.   After the funeral, Clancy is confronted by the killer, who explains he is sparing his victims from a slow death, killing them out of mercy, and that he arranged Merriwether's death. He arrogantly declares he has seen all the possible outcomes of their confrontation, but Clancy surprises him. Nonetheless, the killer escapes after distracting police by saying Clancy has a gun.  Cowles discovers the killer is Charles Ambrose. Clancy is forced to test his abilities to their limits and is able to intercept Ambrose as he poisons his latest victim. Clancy tells him he has no right to take time away from even the terminally ill, such as his friend Merriwether.  Cowles and Clancy finally confront Ambrose in a subway car. Ambrose tells Clancy that he is dying and asks Clancy to shoot him. He wants him to take over the role of mercy killing and warns him that Cowles will be killed if he does not shoot him. She runs up behind Clancy and both Ambrose and Clancy fire their weapons. Ambrose dies and Clancy is injured. Clancy and Cowles become close, as he sees her as the daughter he lost.   In the hospital, Clancy gives Cowles a letter for his wife, with whom Clancy reconciles. He recalls euthanizing his own daughter as she was dying from leukemia.