Divorced Lauren Reynolds goes on a blind date with widower Jim Friedman at Hooters; it goes poorly. Lauren and Jim run into each other while on errands to the pharmacy, and the cashier mistakenly switches their credit cards.   Jim goes to Lauren's to switch the credit cards back. Jen is there and has broken up with her boyfriend Dick, Jim's boss, although they had already paid for a trip to Africa. Lauren commits to using Jen's portion of the vacation package without knowing that Jim intends to use Dick's as well and that the hotel accommodation is for a romantic suite.  The families are put together for a "blended familymoon", where they get together with other couples, including the oversexed Eddy and Ginger. Eddy's new bride is quite his junior, to the chagrin of their teenage son Jake, on whom Jim's oldest daughter Hilary develops a crush at first sight.   The kids make an awkward impression on each other, with Brendan calling his mother "hot," and the others not knowing how to react to Espen acting like her mother is there with her, as she is not ready to let go of her yet. Over time the kids begin to bond with each other and each other's parent.  Jim bonds with the boys, helping them with adventurous sports, while Lauren bonds with the girls, helping Hilary to change her tomboyish look into a more feminine one, leading to Jake becoming her boyfriend. As they become closer to their children, Jim and Lauren begin to warm up to each other. They inadvertently get together for a couples' massage and have fun with each other.   When Lou asks Lauren to put her to bed, Lauren sings her "Over the Rainbow," which, unknown to her, was the song Lou's mother used to sing. The other girls pretend to sleep, while discovering how much they truly love Lauren. She returns this feeling when she maternally kisses each girl's forehead as she says goodnight. Jim starts to experience deeper feelings for Lauren.  On the last night of the trip, Lauren wears a black dress that evening, receiving admiration from everyone. Jim and she are sat down for a romantic dinner, which he had especially planned for her. They chat briefly about basic parenting techniques and then move in for a kiss. However, at the last second, Jim pulls away, apologizing and explaining that he "can't do it".  After returning to America, Jim realizes he misses and has fallen in love with Lauren. When he admits this to his daughters, they are ecstatic with the news. Although Espen is not fully ready to move on from her mother's death, she also does not want her family to lose Lauren. She announces that her mother is so busy in Heaven, she won't be around so much.   At his girls' behest, Jim goes to Lauren's to give her flowers, only to find her ex-husband Mark there. Tyler gets excited to see Jim and wants to play ball; Mark bullies Jim into leaving, then ditches Tyler to answer a summons from work. Mark tries to make a move on Lauren, but she rejects him due to his continuous failure as a father, and his past affairs.  Lauren and Brendan go to support Tyler at his next baseball game, along with Jen and Dick, whom Jen is back together with, and his five kids. Mark does not show up. But Jim and his daughters arrive to show encouragement, inspiring Tyler to hit the ball as Jim had taught him in Africa. Jim then finds Lauren and they admit to wanting to be together and kiss, to the happiness of their kids, who know that they are already a blended family.