When he is approached by a supporter wishing to finance his musical career, Niccolo Paganini becomes attracted to the life which Urbani the promoter has come to offer him. He signs a contract to oblige him to perform as scheduled by Urbani which appears to temporarily ease his financial discomfort. Still, Paganini cannot control his lust for gambling and begins to challenge even Urbani's ability to finance him. At one gambling house, he empties his pockets from his losses and then even wagers his violin for the table stakes in a card game. The proprietor offers him the option of simply playing something on the violin for the patrons of the club in order to cover the stakes of the bet, but Paganini refuses and says "I am nobody's servant". The bet stands and Paganini ends up losing his violin.  At a practice in London, Paganini borrows a violin from the first violinist in the orchestra. At a later concert, the King enters his box at the theatre and Paganini interrupts the sequence of his scheduled numbers to perform an improvised version of God Save the King, to tumultuous applause. Paganini is again a success and the first violinist makes a gift of his own violin to Paganini. Meanwhile, Paganini begins to form a relationship with the daughter and protege of his manager John Watson who is an accomplished soprano. Paganini composes a duet to perform with her which is very well received and appears to push the protege into the spotlight. When a romantic relationship springs up between Paganini and the protege, the very youthful appearance of the protege causes the police to take notice and Paganini is arrested for seducing a minor. Urbani rescues him again by presenting proof that the protege is not underage and Paganini is released.  To deal with the situation of Paganini being distracted by this protege, Urbani arranges a rendezvous between Paganini and the protege after one his performances, however, he invites a courtesan to visit Paganini's dark hotel bedroom before the protege arrives. Paganini assumes in the darkness that it is the protege come to visit him and does not realize that he is sharing his bed with a courtesan. When the protege learns of Paganini's philandering she is livid and the chances of a relationship with Paganini become permanently tainted. Urbani's plan to alienate her affections by hiring the courtesan has succeeded. Paganini then returns to fulfilling his contract with Urbani and performing at various venues throughout Europe.  Paganini's romance with his manager's protege ends and she leaves the country. Eventually she marries and starts a family abroad. As the years pass, Paganini becomes severely ill from his years of living a prodigal life of sexual license and opium addiction and he dies of related symptoms bringing his virtuosity and career in music to an end.