Eddie Cantrow, owner of a San Francisco sports shop, is single but ambivalent about relationships. He's convinced that he's holding out for the right woman, but raises eyebrows from his father and closest friend by attending the wedding of his former fiancee, who he had previously been with for five years. Eddie feels even more out of place when the "singles table" that his seating arrangement is located at is filled with children of the other invited and obviously-married guests. One day, while witnessing a purse-snatching, he tries unsuccessfully to recover it, resulting in the thief attacking him. He and its owner, Lila exchange pleasantries, and Eddie finds her attractive. He talks to his father about the encounter while working at his store, but also delighted when he sees Lila appearing at his store for shopping. In their next encounter, Lila admits that she didn't come to the store to shop, but actually hoping to see him again.  They begin dating and get serious quickly. Suddenly, Lila announces that her company, where she works as an environmental researcher, is requiring Lila to move to Holland, but her company does not deploy married employees abroad. At the urging of both his father Doc and best friend Mac, Eddie marries her after only dating a few weeks.  Before their wedding night, Eddie and Lila have never been sexually intimate nor spent much time getting to know each other. During the drive to their honeymoon in Los Cabos, Mexico, Eddie learns things about Lila he finds annoying, such as incessant singing.  Arriving at their room, they have sex for the first time and Eddie learns that Lila is extremely aggressive in bed. Arriving at their hotel, they both meet the hotel owner, "Uncle Tito", who is a friend of Mac that was recommended to Eddie. Uncle Tito has a strange sense of humor, but welcoming to Eddie, regardless. Eddie tries to look beyond Lila's recent behaviors, but his disaffection deepens when she divulges her history of substance abuse which resulted in a deviated septum, so she sprays drinks out of her nose. He learns she was only an unpaid volunteer at her environment research company, and the "thief" was an ex that she owed money to. Eddie realizes he made a mistake marrying Lila as he rushed into it. Not in love with her, he can't stand more of her newly-discovered behavior and bad habits.  On the beach, Lila insists on using mineral oil, refusing sunblock despite Eddie's warnings about the sun. She then blames Eddie for her second-degree sunburn that she gets as a result. As the enormity of his mistake sinks in, he meets Miranda, a vacationer with her family from Mississippi. Immediately attracted, Eddie spend most of his honeymoon with Miranda and her family while the sunburn confines Lila to their room.  Miranda's family all like Eddie except for her cousin, Martin, who senses he is hiding something. Confiding in Mac, he states he made a mistake marrying Lila and he is falling for Miranda.  Later that same evening, there is a misunderstanding between Eddie and Miranda's family because they hear he came to Mexico to mourn his wife who was killed by a maniac with an ice pick.  Later on, Eddie decides to propose divorce to Lila at lunch, but then Martin and his brother Buzz confront him, with Martin shoving a spicy pepper up Eddie's nose as a result. When Miranda learns about Lila, she accidentally falls into the ocean, Eddie leaps in to save her, and Eddie is stung by a jellyfish afterwards. Lila treats the stings by urinating on him, even with everybody watching. After the chaos, Lila and Miranda both abandon him (Miranda for his lies and Lila for his wish for a divorce). Lila even destroys Eddie's passport stranding him in Mexico.  Eddie sinks into depression, sleeping in a hammock, drinking heavily, and annoying a local Mexican named Manuel with the stories of his problems. Coerced by Uncle Tito, he decides to go to Mississippi to make amends with Miranda. Border patrol agents repeatedly catch Eddie attempting to cross the U.S. border illegally with help from Tito, but he finally gets to Oxford, Mississippi.  Upon meeting Miranda's family, he learns that she has married her previous boyfriend. Despite promising to leave Miranda alone, Eddie sneaks in and awakens Miranda as her husband sleeps. Her husband wakes up when Martin bursts in and attacks Eddie with a baseball bat until Doc intervenes. Eddie agrees to leave if Miranda says she truly loves her new husband, which she does. Eddie leaves with Doc, without knowing that Miranda looks longingly from her balcony as he walks away.  Eighteen months later, Eddie is divorced from Lila (who got his sports store) and he moves permanently to Mexico to sell sporting goods on the beach. Some time later, Miranda arrives in Mexico and finds Eddie. She has left her husband, is single, and still in love with him. Eddie is thrilled. In a twist ending, Miranda is unaware that Eddie had remarried to a woman named Consuela, causing Eddie to go through the same predicament again.  In a post-credits scene, it is revealed that Lila had returned to Los Cabos and stayed at a hotel room with a donkey whom she has sexual relations with.