Dr. Joyce Carmicheal is a shy woman who has strong repressed sexual urges, who also happens to be one of the most renowned African American surgeons in the entire world.  She doesn't have much of a social life, with no husband or boyfriend. At work she is constantly harassed by her coworker who wants to date her, but she tells him she is seeing someone even though she isn't. She meets billionaire investor Tyrone "Greenland" Bernard and becomes attracted to his money. She begins a relationship with him, who introduces her to the kinkier side of sex, such as kissing and holding hands. Joyce becomes more experimental and bold as their erotic relationship develops, including have sex in the bathtub as well as kissing in public. Joyce moves in with Tyrone.  Joyce's friends often meet her after work for salad and to complain about their husbands. Joyce eventually find out that her coworker who has been asking her out is a secret FBI agent, who wants Joyce to wear a recording device to get Tyrone "Greenland" Bernard to confess to his sick crimes. Tyrone has been stealing money from his business and has evaded millions of dollars in tax. As Joyce is in a sexual relationship with Tyrone, she agrees to wearing a wire, which she puts in her hair. That night while she and Tyrone are having sex, right before climaxing he admits that he has been stealing money from his business, which then the FBI breaks into the room and arrest him.  The following day Joyce meets him in death row and she asks him to marry her, which he does. As she leaves, outside she meets her coworker who was the secret FBI agent and it turns out that they were actually husband and wife the entire time, and that Joyce was also an FBI agent secretly tracking Tyrone. After year of eluding them, Joyce came up with the plan to become doctors in order to arrest him. They go to a wedding but before arriving to the marriage, Joyce runs to her therapist and tells her that she is pregnant, but the baby belongs to Tyrone. The therapist congratulates her and she says she will tell her husband that the baby belongs to him.