Faced with a demotion due to a drinking problem, Osbourne Cox angrily quits his job as a CIA analyst and decides to write a memoir. Upon telling his wife Katie, she surreptitiously files for divorce and continues an existing affair with Harry Pfarrer, a married U.S. Marshal with paranoid tendencies. At the instruction of her lawyer, Katie delivers a copy of her husband's digital financial records and other personal files, unknowingly including a rough draft of Osbourne's memoir. The lawyer's assistant copies the files onto a CD-R, which she accidentally leaves on the locker room floor of Hardbodies, a local gym. The disc falls into the hands of personal trainer Chad Feldheimer and his coworker Linda Litzke, who mistakenly believe it contains sensitive government information.  Chad and Linda devise a plan to return the disc to Osbourne for a reward as Linda is eager to raise money for cosmetic surgery. However, their inept efforts to blackmail Osbourne only enrage him. Upon their failure to secure money from Osbourne, Chad and Linda try to sell the disc to the Russian embassy, meeting with an official who is later revealed to be a spy for the CIA. Osbourne's erratic behavior prompts Katie to change the locks on their house and to invite Harry to move in. Harry is a serial philanderer who incidentally becomes romantically involved with Linda after meeting her on a dating site.  Having falsely promised the Russians more files, Linda persuades Chad to sneak into the Cox house to steal files from Osbourne's computer. Chad is discovered by Harry, who reflexively kills Chad with his firearm. Harry searches the body for clues, but finds an empty wallet and missing suit tags, a precaution Chad took at the behest of Linda's advice. Harry surmises from his lack of identifying features that Chad is a government agent. At the CIA headquarters, Osbourne's former superior and his director learn that information from Osbourne has been given to the Russian embassy. They are perplexed because the information is of no particular importance and the perpetrators' motive is unknown. To avoid involvement from the FBI because of interservice rivalry, the director orders that Chad's death be covered up.  Harry realizes that he is being tailed by a divorce lawyer hired by his wife. Depressed, Harry meets with Linda, who is distressed over Chad's disappearance. Harry agrees to help find him, unaware that Chad is the man he killed. Linda returns to the embassy, believing that the Russians have abducted Chad, but they deny this. After they inform her the contents of the CD she has given them are worthless, she convinces the manager of Hardbodies, Ted (who has unrequited feelings for Linda), to help her by sneaking into the Cox household to gather more files.  Harry and Linda meet in a park, where Linda reveals the address where Chad went before he disappeared. Harry realizes that Chad is the man he shot and flees, convinced Linda is a spy. When Osbourne breaks into Katie's house with a hatchet to retrieve personal belongings, he finds Ted in the basement; Osbourne shoots him, chases him into the street, and kills him with the hatchet.  At the CIA headquarters, Osbourne's former superior informs the director of the events. A surveilling CIA officer who saw Osbourne's highly conspicuous attack intervened and shot him, leaving him in a coma. Harry has been detained while trying to flee to Venezuela, a country with no extradition treaty with the U.S.; the director orders that Harry be released and allowed to continue to Venezuela, rather than deal with the consequences of bringing him into custody. Linda has been captured but agrees to keep quiet if they will pay for her plastic surgery. The director, bewildered by the continuity of events, approves the payment and closes the file.