Coach Lambeau Fields (David Koechner) has the distinction of being the worst coach in the history of sports that anyone can recall. The incompetent and seemingly hopeless coach has a job that he is finally proud of producing the DNA building blocks of the noble Sea Biscuit lineage when he is convinced by fellow coach Freddie Wiseman (Carl Weathers) to return to the field for one last shot. Assuring his long-suffering wife, Barb (Melora Hardin), that he will not ignore his family again, Coach moves them to Plainfolk, Texas where he hopes to redeem himself and his reputation. Here he begins yet another attempt to improve his abysmal record – this time as the coach of the football team at Heartland State University, where he is saddled with a team of misfits.  Although the team and townsfolk are leery of the newcomer's approach, the Coach uses his unorthodox methods and game films to whip this group of rag-tags into shape – both on and off the field. While the audience follows their winding road to the playoffs, the film pokes fun at the clichés and conventions of other sports flicks. The Coach begins ignoring his wife again due to the demands of his work watching pornographic films to prepare his team. A love triangle ensues between Coach's Olympic gymnast daughter, the team's quarterback, and the Comebacks' star running back. This causes a locker room brawl, exposing the conflicts inherent in the diverse group of players. Coach Fields locks them in the locker room until they sort out their differences, and after bonding over a PA system Journey song complete with a laser light show donated by the booster club, the team does make progress. So much so that they actually make it to the South-Southwest Conference Championship at the 2nd Annual Toilet Bowl, where "...the excitement is so thick in this stadium you can cut it with a knife." However, the winning season comes at the expense of Lambeau Field's marriage as Coach's Wife leaves him for an exchange student from an obscure nation.  Facing their fiercest opponents yet and yearning to win the big game, The Comebacks face off with the heavily armed Lone Star State Penitentiary Unbeatables, coached by Lambeau Fields' former best friend Freddy Wiseman. Freddy betrayed Coach after Coach Fields was imprisoned for attempting to teach his honor society team how football players are supposed to behave. Escaping prison during a basketball game against the warden (Dennis Rodman), Coach Fields returned to the college to lead the team to this championship game. The Unbeatables take a large lead using illegal tactics overlooked by the bribed officials. The Comebacks struggle forward gamely against the team of criminals and unfair officiating. And as every great sports team has always done, The Comebacks use ingenuity, unorthodox measures, and dance moves in the final showdown where the best team wins. Coach realizes 'It's not all about winning' and sends a message via the TV camera to Barb. The Comebacks come back against the heavily favored Unbeatables, as they find new strength and courage from the emotional moment. A special play is called from an unlikely source as Coach realizes that Freddy knows where Coach is getting his plays. A dramatic and climatic 2-point conversion attempt to determine the winner is tried. Every breath hangs in the balance, until... The Comebacks are victorious, while Barb has made her way to the stadium and runs to embrace the finally victorious Coach, but Lambeau is subsequently knocked down in a surprise attack by a bus with Freddie driving it, presumably on his way to a polygamous relationship in Mexico, laughing manically as Lambeau is in pain. Lambeau groans in agony after being asked by a TV reporter how it feels to finally be a winner.