Joanna, a writer, and Michael Reed, a commercial real estate agent, are a married couple who share an apartment in New York City. During a party with Michael's colleagues, Joanna notices him spending time with Laura Nunez, an attractive co-worker, and wonders why he has not previously mentioned her. Joanna suspects Michael is having an affair and confronts him about it when they return home. They have an argument but reconcile later that night. The following day, Michael leaves on a business trip to Philadelphia with his associates Laura and Andy; Joanna stays behind to work on a novel. Joanna meets her ex-boyfriend Alex Mann; they go to a bar later that day, have a dinner with two of Alex's friends, Sandra and Truman, and they discuss their past relationship and Joanna's marriage to Michael; she has never told Michael about Alex.  Joanna and Alex return to Andy's apartment, where they talk about their previous romance, having got back together after Michael briefly broke off his relationship with Joanna. She goes out to walk Andy's dog; he accidentally locks them outside. They go to a party with Sandra, Truman, and the dog. Joanna and Alex grow closer over the course of the night, and they eventually kiss. After the party, they return to Alex's hotel room. Joanna refuses to have sex with Alex and they instead spend the night embracing each other in bed. The next day, Joanna and Alex kiss before he leaves New York broken-hearted.  Scenes depicting Joanna's night with Alex are interspersed with scenes showing Michael and Laura. After having dinner with a client, Laura invites Michael out for drinks at the hotel bar. They kiss but then Michael tells her he has never cheated on his wife. They go to the hotel pool, where they strip to their underwear and swim together. Laura asks Michael if he has ever been cheated on, and he says no. Laura replies that she was once cheated on by her partner, and she was angry for a month, but then reconciled. Her partner later died. She claims that had he not died, she would most likely still be there with Michael. They return to Laura's room and have sex. In the morning, Michael discovers a note from Joanna in which she apologizes for their fight and says she trusts him. Feeling guilty, Michael leaves Philadelphia early. Laura and Andy give their presentation to their clients without him.  Upon returning to their apartment, Michael finds Joanna crying. They make plans for the day in an attempt to resume their normal lives. They embrace and he says that he loves her. Joanna is puzzled by Michael's sudden show of affection and early return from work. Michael notices that Joanna left out a pair of expensive shoes from the night before and that she is wearing her sexiest underwear. The film ends as Joanna prepares to speak.