On the morning of September 11, 2001, First officer LeRoy Homer Jr. gets dressed in his F.A.A. official uniform, kisses his wife and leaves for work. Passengers board United Airlines Flight 93 at Newark Liberty International Airport, including Tom Burnett, Jeremy Glick, Todd Beamer, Mark Bingham, Lauren Grandcolas, Donald Greene, Nicole Miller, and Honor Elizabeth Wainio. Four al-Qaeda terrorists Ziad Jarrah, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed al-Nami, also board the flight. The plane takes off from Newark, bound for San Francisco, California.  46 minutes after takeoff, the hijackers make their move; passenger Mark Rothenberg tries to negotiate with the hijackers and is fatally stabbed and the "bomb" is revealed causing mass panic among passengers, the hijackers stab a flight attendant knocking her unconscious before wrestling their way into the cockpit and attacking the pilots. During the struggle with the hijackers, Homer courageously sends out a mayday call before he and Captain Jason Dahl are knocked unconscious. Within minutes, Flight 77 crashes into the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia.  Aboard Flight 93, the passengers learn from family members via airphones about the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon in Washington, D.C.; they decide to take action by organizing a revolt against the four hijackers. Their plan is empowered with the knowledge that passenger Don Greene has experience in flying.  The group pins their hopes on Greene being able at least to control the plane. After passengers arm themselves, pray, and make final phone calls to loved ones, Todd Beamer says, "Let's Roll!". They start their counter-attack, running down the aisle with a food cart. Jarrah shakes the plane violently to throw the passengers off balance, and Flight 93 narrowly misses a private aircraft as the passengers continue their assault, overpowering al-Nami, who is outside the cockpit. After boiling water is thrown at him, al-Nami is killed by Mark Bingham with a blow to the head with the hot water container. Seeing the passengers getting nearer, al-Ghamdi, Jarrah and al-Haznawi prepare to crash the plane, knowing they'll never reach their intended target. The passengers breach the cockpit with the food cart, and as they wrestle with al-Haznawi and al-Ghamdi to get in the cockpit, the two hijackers tell Jarrah to simply crash the plane, rather than to carry on with the rest of their mission. Jarrah puts it into a nosedive, just as the passengers finally gain entrance into the cockpit. The plane inverts, crashing into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing everyone on board. Air Traffic Control can be seen and heard desperately calling for any response from Flight 93. Emergency workers then come by to investigate the crash area (denoted by the crater). The film then depicts the passage of time, and with it, the disappearance of the crater.