Ricky is a lonely, 40-something restaurant manager and is best friends with Seth, an equally single accountant. Seth is constantly trying to get him to be his wingman.  Tearing him away from his two black cats and hockey on TV, Ricky and Seth go to his restaurant, trying to pick up women by pretending to be looking for actresses for an upcoming film. Going to the wedding of the only other guy from their class who hadn't married, Ricky asks God to find him someone before he's hit by lightning or killed by terrorists.  Soon after Ricky sees a pop-up ad for E-Happily, he spontaneously signs up. The next day, the restaurant's 27-year-old busboy tells him he met his fiancée on the same site. Finally getting a response to his profile, he meets with Seth, telling him he found a match although admittedly he has no idea what she looks like.  Skeptical, Seth goes to the restaurant where Ricky is meeting Danita. They get along well, she appreciates his humor, is also a cat person, they both like hockey and have similar interests. He finally feels he has met his ideal woman. They sleep together, and she tells him he was the only person willing to meet her without a photo.  Seth shows up at Ricky's, seeking details. Shocked, he reiterates that Danita's a ten, and he's a four, so she must have a major flaw. Meeting for lunch, when he says she's perfect, she runs off, upset. Ten days later he's still in a funk. Seth tries to get him to go out and prowl.  Finally Danita calls. Meeting for lunch, she tells Ricky she responded on E-Happily because of his profile, his openness. However, one significant problem arises: she's been miserably married for nine years to an obsessive, abusive husband, so she says she can never see him again.  Danita invites Ricky to an open-air screening of a movie in the cemetery. She doesn't want to stop seeing him, so she states matter-of-factly that they must kill her husband so they can be together. Ricky is so smitten he agrees.  Visiting Seth at work, Ricky tells him about needing to kill Danita's obsessive husband. He insists they rewatch Body Heat, so Ricky rethinks doing it. As it doesn't work, upon Seth's insistence, they go to Danita's husband's book signing -- the abusive husband Ben is an ex-rabbi-turned-author -- which doesn't dissuade Ricky either.  Finally, Seth convinces Ricky to go and spy on the couple, as he has seen they go to a nearby restaurant chain every Saturday night. Recognizing Seth from the book signing, Ben invites them to join their table for dinner. When told Ricky has an unfinished novel, he offers to read it. Later on, Danita calls Ricky and upon discovering the guys went to spy on them, she hangs up, disappointed.  Seth signs up to E-Happily, and soon gets engaged. Meanwhile, Danita shows at Ricky's, confessing she may have initially planned to use him to murder Ben, but had sincerely fallen for him. Upset, he asks her to leave. Then, he asks her to swear on one of her cats that she loves him.  They plan on getting Ricky into their house under the guise of Ben proofing his book. Danita mentions the plot of the book is based on the actual story of him killing his first wife. After dinner, Ben takes them on a drive to the cemetery where they watched the movie together, as he'd seen them on their date. Both men pull their guns, but Ricky shoots Ben dead when he barrages him with insults.  Seth turns up to help dispose of the body. For the next two weeks Danita and Ricky secretly meet up in the Catholic church, then suddenly she leaves town. Nine months later, Ricky's cop cousin tells him a mass murderer confessed to killing Ben Jacobs. Again at the cemetery movie showing, Danita shows up, explaining she left because the police wouldn't leave her alone. The serial killer news brought her back. The happy couple do a testimonial ad for E-Happily.