Aidan Bloom is a 35-year-old father of two struggling to be an actor in Los Angeles while his wife, Sarah, works a tedious data entry job. In order to send their kids, Tucker and Grace, to a Jewish school, they rely on help from Aidan's father, Gabe, who insisted they go to an Orthodox Jewish day school.  When Gabe reveals his cancer has returned, he tells Aidan that he has decided to put the rest of his money into a new stem cell treatment, meaning his grandchildren can no longer afford to attend their school. After school administrator Rabbi Twersky refuses to provide any aid to the Blooms, Sarah suggests that Aidan homeschool their kids, and their adventure of self-discovery begins. Through teaching them about life his way, Aidan gradually discovers some of the parts of himself he could not find.  Aidan takes the kids on a field trip, camping in the desert. Another day, they are able to test drive an Aston Martin, as Grace is wearing a wig and the salesman mistakenly believes she is dying. Another he works with the kids fixing up their yard, referring to it as Mr. Miyagi learning (referring to The Karate Kid), working to repair the fence and pool. Aidan fools a wealthy neighbor's maid into believing he and the kids are there to clean the pool so he can teach Grace to swim.  Aidan's brother Noah is a virtual shut-in who can only be bribed to babysit for his brother. He also refuses to see his dying father, from whom he is estranged. Noah falls for his neighbor Janine who is a furry costume maker, which gives him the idea to impress her by making a costume for San Diego Comic-Con. He does go, and gets the girl. As Gabe nears death, he calls to ask Aidan to come, bringing his favorite ice cream and Noah. He surprisingly leaves the convention to join them at Gabe's side.  Aidan grows closer to his wife and children, his faith through the support of young Rabbi Rosenberg, his brother and his father. The family moves onward and upward. We see Grace happily starting high school. Sarah stands up against her harasser at work, she getting one year of severance pay, and he many hours of obligatory anti-sexual harassment training and is fired. Aidan gets a job teaching acting.