D.C. punk band the Ain't Rights—Pat, Sam, Reece, and Tiger—are travelling the Pacific Northwest, low on funds. After their gig is cancelled, a radio host arranges a new show in a rural area outside Portland. Arriving at the venue, they realize it is a neo-Nazi skinhead bar and they are opening for an NSBM band, Cowcatcher. They go ahead with the show anyway, opening the show with an anti-Nazi song. During their set, Pat notes two young women, Emily and Amber, looking disturbed and being shepherded out of sight.  As they prepare to leave, Pat returns to the bar's green room for Sam's cell phone. There he stumbles upon Amber and the members of Cowcatcher standing over the body of Emily, who's been stabbed to death by Werm. Pat calls the police as he flees, but he is caught, and bar employees Gabe and Big Justin restrain the rest of the band and confine them in the green room with Amber. Gabe pays one young skinhead to stab another to create a cover story for the police who respond to Pat's call. The bar's owner, skinhead leader Darcy, decides all witnesses need to be eliminated. He arranges for Cowcatcher to be given poisoned heroin, while more skinheads assemble at the bar, preparing to kill the band and Amber.  The band overpowers Big Justin and holds him hostage, taking his pistol and a boxcutter from his pocket. They negotiate through the door with Darcy, who asks them to surrender the pistol. Pat agrees, on the condition that they keep the bullets, but when he opens the door, the men attempt to force their way in while slashing at his arm. They manage to close the door, but Pat loses the gun and is seriously injured. Big Justin attempts to break free, leading Reece to choke him until he suffocates. Amber slashes Big Justin's stomach open with the boxcutter to make sure he is dead.  Looking for a way out, the band tears up the floorboards. They discover a drug lab under the bar, but the exit is locked from the outside. Wielding improvised weapons, they leave the green room and attempt to fight their way out. Neo-Nazi Clark unleashes a fighting dog which kills Tiger. Reece escapes through a window, only to be stabbed to death by Alan. After repelling the dog with microphone feedback, Pat, Amber, and Sam retreat back to the green room.  Daniel arrives, and Darcy sends him in to kill the survivors, claiming they murdered Emily, his girlfriend. However, Daniel talks to them, learning that Werm murdered Emily for planning to leave the skinhead life. Darcy grows suspicious of Daniel and searches the trunk of his car, where he finds Daniel and Emily's belongings, indicating they were planning to leave together. Darcy also discovers a baseball bat that Darcy had used to murder someone and ordered Daniel to get rid of.   Daniel agrees to help the band, but as they venture back out into the bar he is shot dead by the bartender. Pat kills the bartender, and the group takes his shotgun, only to find themselves confronted by the full skinhead force. Sam mortally wounds Clark's dog with the shotgun before it kills her, and Amber is shot as she and Pat once again retreat to the green room.  With the sun rising, Darcy has most of the skinheads disperse and stage the band's deaths to look like they were killed while trespassing on his property. Gabe prepares to clean up the bar, while Jonathan and Kyle are dispatched with another attack dog. Pat and Amber formulate a plan for a last stand. They again use microphone feedback to scare off the dog, and Pat lures Jonathan into the drug lab. As Kyle stands watch in the green room, Amber emerges from under the cushions of the couch and cuts his throat with the boxcutter. Pat and Jonathan fight, and Amber sneaks up and shoots Jonathan in the head. Gabe enters the green room, finds his companions dead, and surrenders to Pat and Amber.  The duo holds Gabe at gunpoint and marches him to Darcy's house. Once there, Pat and Amber let Gabe go to a nearby farm to call the authorities. They confront Darcy, killing Clark and Alan. Fleeing, Darcy draws Big Justin's pistol but is shot dead. Their ammunition gone, Pat and Amber sit on the side of the road. Alarmed at the return of Clark's dog, they watch it lay beside his body mournfully and leave it alone. Energy spent, they wait for the police.