A gang of Ukrainian mobsters manage to steal a device known as "The Handle"; its worth estimated at billions. The British government hires Nathan Jasmine to retrieve the Handle before billionaire arms dealer Greg Simmonds can sell it to the highest bidder. Nathan hires super-spy Orson Fortune to lead a team made up of Sarah Fidel, JJ Davies and others. The team travels to Madrid, seeking the courier intended to transport the hard drive containing the data from the Handle. Their search is interrupted by Mike, a rival of Nathan's, who seems to have also been hired to retrieve the Handle. Sarah, an American and skilled hacker, manages to copy the hard drive's contents first. Learning that Simmonds plans to host a charity gala in Cannes, the team decides to infiltrate it by blackmailing his favorite movie star, Danny Francesco, into helping them distract Simmonds.   Simmonds invites Danny and Michaela, Sarah's cover as his girlfriend, to spend some time in his Turkish villa in Antalya. Orson infiltrates the Ukrainian mafia house to aid Sarah in hacking their computers, disguising it as a robbery. The British government warns Nathan that the Handle is an advanced AI capable of being programmed to defeat any security system in the world.  Upon learning that the exchange for the Handle will take place in Antalya, the team travels to Turkey. While Simmonds shows Danny his memorabilia, Orson and JJ work to track down one of Simmonds' moles within the Turkish government. Disguised as Simmonds' lawyer, Orson attends the exchange and finalizes it, but Mike and his men intervene, resulting in the death of almost everyone present and the theft of the Handle. This incident makes it clear that Mike has gone rogue and is working independently. Despite the problems the team has caused him, Simmonds is willing to help because Mike's theft of the Handle has cost Simmonds his commission.  Simmonds tells them that the buyers were two bio-tech moguls, Trent and Arnold, who have been hoarding gold and intend to use the Handle to cause a worldwide financial collapse. While Orson and JJ clear heavy security on ground level, Simmonds and Danny go up into the tower where Mike is finalizing the deal for the Handle with the tech moguls. Simmonds very effectively shows them how he could very easily take out their loved ones if he is not paid for the weapon. He and Danny manage to leave before everyone turns on one another. As Orson arrives, the only one left is Mike, so he takes him out and retrieves the Handle. In Doha, the team is offered another job, but they decide to go on vacation. Orson tells them he has used the proceeds from the robbery at the Ukrainians' villa to finance Danny's new film, about the film's events, with Danny playing Simmonds and Simmonds acting as an on set producer.