Married couple Ethan and Sophie see a therapist regularly. After asking them to each play a note on a piano, he identifies a disconnection in their relationship and suggests they take a weekend on a secluded estate.  Once at the estate, Sophie goes to the guest cottage and has sex with Ethan. She returns to the house to find Ethan asleep. When she mentions the sex, he says he cannot remember, so Sophie, annoyed, goes to bed alone and he sleeps in the guest cottage. During the night, Sophie joins him, apologizing for her behavior and falling asleep next to him. The next morning, she makes him eggs and bacon, which is odd, as Ethan notes that she hates cooking bacon in the house.  Ethan returns to the main house where Sophie has no memory of joining him in the guest cottage. He deduces that something unusual is going on: In the guest cottage, they each met a doppelgänger of the other, convincing enough to pass. By visiting with Sophie II, Ethan establishes the doppelgängers do not leave the guest cottage. By barging in on Sophie's session with Ethan II, he determines that the doppelgängers disappear when both spouses are in the guest cottage and the doubles are idealized versions of them. Ethan and Sophie take advantage of the circumstances, and set rules, including a rule of "no intimacy".  Ethan figures an explanation for what's going on as some of his clothing is missing, and he receives voice mails from friends and family, answering calls, made in his voice, asking about his past. Sophie starts developing feelings for Ethan II and goes to the guest cottage to seduce him. Ethan discovers this by claiming to leave, but instead enters the guest house and assumes the place of his doppelgänger. Sophie seduces the real Ethan, unbeknownst to her.  The next morning, Sophie seeks refuge with Ethan II, and Ethan I disturbs them by entering the guest cottage. As they argue, they find Sophie II and Ethan II awaiting them in the main house. The four spend the evening together, where it becomes clear that Ethan II and Sophie II know they are playing a role. Ethan II also reveals Ethan I's duplicity at the guest cottage, at which point Sophie I asks Ethan I to leave. He goes to the guest cottage and finds a computer with files for different couples that include recordings of voices, and finds one with "Ethan & Sophie" learning to imitate him and Sophie I.  Ethan I finds he is trapped in the guest house, but Sophie II lets him out. She explains that she and Ethan II must cause the visiting couple to fall out of love. Then the residing couple leave, with the visiting couple trapped within the estate. However, Ethan II has fallen in love with Sophie I and is planning to leave with her. Sophie II does not want her husband to leave with another woman. Ethan I explains this to Sophie I, but Ethan II catches the other revealing the plan.  Ethan II attempts to convince Sophie I to flee with him. When she refuses, he runs away on his own but hits an invisible barrier and collapses unconscious. Each Sophie has an opposing reaction, one distressed for Ethan II and the other smiling at Ethan I. Ethan I grabs the smiling Sophie and they leave.  Ethan and Sophie drive to the therapist's office, finding it abandoned so they head home. The next morning, they are happy and flirtatious together, and Sophie goes to make Ethan breakfast. When he asks her what she's making, she replies eggs and bacon; taken aback, Ethan takes a long moment to ponder this before joining her.