On a rainy night, Glen's car runs over a spike strip. He seeks refuge in the nearby home of married couple Art and Cyndi. Art invites him to spend the night. Art makes it clear that he is taking medication for his depression. Cyndi tells Glen that Art was her high school teacher and that she met him when she was 17 years old. Art persuades Glen to sleep with Cyndi. The next day, Glen walks home. Art mysteriously finds Glen and plays him a video showing a pregnant Cyndi. After Art leaves, Glen receives a text message from Cyndi telling him to "get rid" of Art. Glen and Cyndi reunite and talk about the baby.  Glen and Cyndi are actually patients in a mental asylum who have frequent sessions with Shannon and Dr. Conners. Glen reads from a script detailing his interactions with Cyndi. Meanwhile, Cyndi talks about a hypnotist who made her reveal she had a crush on Art. Shannon tells Cyndi that Glen was her high school teacher while Art was the hypnotist. Art had hypnotized Glen and Cyndi and made them believe they were expecting a baby. Dr. Conners reveals that Glen and Cyndi are still receptive to hypnotic suggestions, including convincing Glen that he cannot stand. Thus, when a certain airwave is played, he can stand up when his legs no longer work. Shannon criticizes Dr. Conners for not telling her about the airwave because she believes it is dangerous. Dr. Conners replaces Shannon with another doctor.  Shannon helps Glen and Cyndi escape the asylum and go to a hotel. Cyndi reveals that she was Art's assistant. Art's house where Glen and Cyndi first met was, in fact, an apartment. Using the airwave, Art hypnotized Glen into thinking he had sex with Cyndi.  Hours earlier, Shannon had used the airwave on Cyndi so the sound of running water would remind her of where she was. In the hotel room, Cyndi hears the sound and leaves a trance. Glen and Cyndi are still in the asylum. Shannon finds Dr. Conners, yells at him, and throws a chair that breaks the one-way mirror between them and the patients. Shannon, Glen, and Cyndi run away and leave the asylum once and for all. Glen, however, is still partially in a trance.  Senator Harris and Katie are expecting a baby. Harris hires Art to hypnotize Katie and tell her to stop calling him. Art tells Katie to imagine she had sex with Harris. Harris later hits Art, believing he had sex with Katie. Over the phone, Katie tells someone that she is pregnant. Meanwhile, Harris celebrates his re-election and Art tinkers with an earpiece playing the airwave.