Max is assigned to the White House while Charlie, the Secret Service dog, is on maternity leave. He meets TJ, a 12-year-old boy, who is the President's son. Due to his father's high profile, he is trying hard to fit in and lead a normal life. During a state visit by the Russian Prime Minister and his daughter, Alexandra (Alex), TJ is asked to accompany her, during their stay. TJ befriends Alex, but when they sneak out of the White House in an attempt to find a party thrown by some of TJ's new friends at school, two masked villains try to kidnap TJ and Alex.  Luckily for the kids, Max has also managed to sneak out of the White House, following TJ and Alex, and jumps in to save TJ. Max bites the ankle of one of the bandits and Alex and TJ are able to escape the kidnappers' clutches and run back to the White House, where they promptly get in hot water with their parents and the White House security detail. TJ and Alex form an unlikely alliance and start investigating the nefarious doings of all they suspect. As their many attempts at sleuthing backfire and a harrowing attempt at harming the First Lady is narrowly foiled by Max, the Secret Service finally persuades President Bennett to relieve Max of his duties.  After that incident, the Russian President declares to President Bennett, "If you cannot protect your children, how are you going to protect our children?" and decides to return to Moscow, cutting his visit short. A despondent TJ cannot sleep and while searching for an early morning snack in the kitchen discovers that Chef Coop is the Russian mole. Coop locks TJ in the freezer and escapes. Meanwhile, Olga tricks Alex into following her into woods, so that Coop can abduct her.  Max finally escapes from his cage and smashes back into the residence to save TJ, alerting everyone to the misdeeds at hand. After a heroic pursuit of the criminals by Max and TJ with both Presidents and Agent Thorn, the perpetrators are captured and Alex is rescued. Bennett apologizes to TJ for not believing him and assures him that the First Family is a family first. TJ and Alex convince their fathers to resume their talks where a historic agreement is reached and an award for bravery is bestowed upon Max. In the end, TJ convince Alex to moved in with him with a kiss thanks to Max nudging TJ, and he gets a surprise; Charlie had three puppies and TJ, Alex and Max wants to keep them all and starts playing with them.