In Ridgecrest, California, twenty-four year old Jae, (Barton) is released from prison for murdering her mother 7 years prior. She is reunited with her older brother, Robin (Davis) at their childhood home and finds herself quickly wanting to escape the bad memories that still preside there.  When Jae discovers that Robin will soon be leaving town to go to Burn the Moon, a desert music festival in Death Valley, with his girlfriend Rosemary (Zoli) and her friends Heather (Rosendorff) and Jasmine (Kelly Brannigan), she said she'll tag along.  Once the group is on the road, the car breaks down in the middle of no where. A good samaritan, Clay (Busey) tows the car to the local mechanic, Archer (Sebastian Bach) who informs them, that the car will take at least 2 days to fix. While waiting at a local bar being served by Lizard (Gerry Bednob) some guys- Troy (Ford), Dax (Michael Milford) and Wade (Tyler Sellers) who stopped at the mechanic for gas and a drink, also on their way to the festival, offer to take the group along with them. Eventually they all head off together for the festival in the boys RV.  As they head toward Death Valley they accidentally take a wrong turn in the darkness, and have no choice but to set up camp for the night. The group experiments with peyote, Jae and Troy have a semi-romantic tryst and Jasmine, unbeknownst to the others, accidentally kills the battery in the RV, while playing with the headlights when high.  In the morning, they wake up to find that Rosemary is dead - assumed to have overdosed on the peyote or to have had some kind of bad reaction. The RV is now stranded, they have no cell reception and are completely lost. They have no choice but to take off on foot, leaving Rosemary's body behind in the RV.  Things then continue to get progressively worse for the group. Over the course of the following 72 hours Wade gets bitten by a rattle snake and can no longer continue on with the group. Dax stays behind to look after Wade, until he eventually dies. Tensions start to rise between Robin and Troy until Robin decides that they will have a better chance of survival if he takes off alone in search of help.  A huge sandstorm then hits the group which suffocates and kills Jasmine. Now alone, Dax - though having survived the sandstorm, sees no way out and jumps off a cliff face, committing suicide. Soon, Jae and Heather separate from Troy and eventually Heather dies from dehydration.  In the end, a helicopter soon finds Robin and it is assumed that he is rescued. Jae finally finds a road and is picked up by a passing family. And at the very end of the film, after the credits have run, we see that Troy stumbles upon the 'Burn The Moon' festival, now over and done with.