While visiting Dr. Evans with Aunt Bam, Madea's niece, Shirley, discovers her cancer has gotten worse and she may only have a few weeks to live. She invites her children to dinner to tell them all at once. Cora Simmons and her father Leroy Brown are also at the hospital where a colonoscopy on Mr. Brown shows a growth that needs to be surgically removed. Meanwhile, Madea drives through Snax, a restaurant, because Sabrina, its young manager, delayed taking her order until after breakfast was over for the day.  Shirley's children are Byron, on probation for selling drugs and in a relationship with selfish, gold-digging Renee with a son from a previous relationship; Tammy, who has marital issues with her husband Harold and their undisciplined children; and Kimberly, filled with anger issues and mistreats her husband Calvin, her son C.J. and her family. They arrive for dinner and instantly start arguing. Byron's ex and mother of his child, Sabrina, then arrives. Using her son's child support money and supplies for herself, she tries to goad Byron back into illegal activities in order to get more.  Bam goes to Madea's house, seeking help for Shirley. Byron and Renee sneak into Shirley's house to sleep and Byron is arrested for back child support. Shirley goes to Kimberly to help her bail Byron out; despite Kimberly's refusal, Calvin volunteers to help. The next day, Calvin bails out Byron. However, the arrest costs Byron his job. During the day, Madea gathers Shirley's children to go over to their mother's house for another dinner. At Harold's garage, she instills some manners into their kids.  That night, they have dinner as a family. Sabrina leaves her son with Byron and Kimberly arrives late. An argument ensues, with Tammy reveals Kimberly got pregnant at 13 and had Shirley raising the child for her. Kimberly leaves, and Byron is revealed to be the child in question; angry and heartbroken that his family kept this a secret from him, he leaves as well with Shirley chasing after him. An argument between Harold and Tammy concludes with him demanding that Tammy start respecting him as earlier advised by Madea, and she apologizes. Afterward, Byron is humiliated by Sabrina on Maury and returns to the drug trade, while Calvin leaves Kimberly and takes C.J. with him. By contrast, Harold and Tammy's relationship and their kids seem to be improving. With all the drama and arguing going on, Shirley is unable to tell the family about her cancer.   Over time, Shirley's condition worsens, and she is rushed to the hospital, where she reveals to her children (sans an absent Kimberly) that she has cancer, tells her family that she loves them and later dies. Kimberly arrives and is told by Calvin that Shirley has died.  Days later, a funeral service is held, and Shirley is buried. At the wake, Madea intimidates Sabrina to stop hassling Byron and stop using their child to make his life miserable, and confronts Byron that he should care for his son by getting a stable job, warning him if he continues down the wrong path, he will end up dead or back in prison, and that once he goes down, Renee will just move on to the next man with the most money. She also tells Sabrina and Byron to settle their differences and start working together on raising their child. Madea also reveals that Kimberly was raped by her paternal uncle when she was 12, resulting in her having a baby at 13, explaining her bitterness and anger towards her family. Kimberly has to forgive in order to find peace and to treat her husband and son better. She apologizes to Calvin, agreeing to get help to fix their marriage, and they reconcile. Taking Madea's words to heart, Byron decides to prioritize his son and breaks up with Renee.  Madea, Mr. Brown and Cora appear on Maury to find out if Mr. Brown is Cora's father. Madea insists so, but, following an argument, it turns out he is not. Madea departs in hysterics with Joe at home, watching it unfold on TV.