After Lauren is dumped by her boyfriend, she can't afford a place of her own. Her friend Jesse tells her of a beautiful apartment by Gramercy Park, not including the fact that his friend Katie lives there. The women had a bad experience together back in college. Despite their clear disdain for each other, they move in together for lack of better options.  One night, Lauren hears strange noises from Katie's room. Believing she is being attacked, she opens the door to see Katie is saying sexually explicit things on the phone. Katie explains she works as a phone sex operator, as her writing does not earn her enough money to live in New York. Lauren is disgusted, but makes some suggestions how to make more money.  Several weeks go by, and Lauren loses her publishing job when her boss retires. Encouraging Katie to get a land line, 1-900-mmmhmmm, Lauren becomes her business manager as they go into business for themselves, which is much more lucrative. In a few weeks they make $12,000, of which Lauren gets , which increases when she becomes a phone operator herself. In the process, they become close friends.  Throughout the film, Katie speaks with a repeat customer named Sean and the calls become less about phone sex and more about getting to know one another. They agree to meet, but accompanied by Lauren and Jesse who are concerned he may be a rapist. However, they discover they are very well suited and begin a relationship. This leaves Katie feeling distressed as it is revealed that she is a virgin and has been lying for many years to cover up her insecurities.  Lauren gets an interview at a prestigious publishing company which previously rejected her, and Katie convinces her to do the interview to blow them off. She tells them she has been running a phone sex line all summer, and they offer her the job as they feel she has business savvy. Concerned about long-term prospects, Lauren accepts the job which angers Katie to the point where she reveals their business to Lauren's conservative parents. Lauren moves out and they stop speaking.  Lauren's ex-boyfriend Charlie returns from Italy and declares that he made a mistake in breaking up with her. He reveals that he had a passionate love affair with a fiery Italian woman, but if he is to succeed in his business he needs someone boring, predictable and simple - the same reasons he dumped her. She stands up for herself and leaves Charlie for good. Meanwhile, Katie and Sean decide to have sex and in order to calm their nerves they talk on the phone while lying next to each other in bed. When they are finished Katie feels sad that she can't share this news with Lauren, whom she loves. Sean encourages her to call her, and they declare that they 'think' they love each other.  Lauren and Katie call each other at the same time, engaging in a phone conversation full of unintentional innuendo before they meet each other on the street and hug.