Samantha "Sam" Craft's first day as a pizza delivery girl is going poorly, as customers aren't giving her tips. When she is assigned a delivery in the affluent Mill Basin neighborhood, she is hopeful that her luck will change. However, the delivery recipient, Gary Neumieir, also stiffs Sam on a tip. Frustrated and needing gas money, Sam enters the mansion to demand a tip. Inside, she inadvertently interrupts the secret gathering of a satanic coven led by Danica Ross. The coven, which includes Gary Neumieir and his wife Gypsy, capture Sam after they realize she is a virgin.  Sam awakens to find herself held captive with Danica's disgruntled husband, Samuel. Samuel explains that the coven plans to summon the demon Baphomet but needs a virgin's womb to do so. After Sam reveals that she is a virgin, Samuel says that he can save their lives by taking her virginity and tries to sexually assault her. Sam fights back. Samuel pulls a gun but accidentally fatally shoots himself as Sam escapes outside.  Sam flees down the street to another mansion, where her pleas for help are answered by a babysitter, Kristen. However, Sam soon discovers that the babysitter is in league with the coven. Fleeing upstairs, Sam encounters Kristen's sister Michelle, who attacks Sam with a strap-on dildo drill. Sam avoids the attack and Michelle accidentally impales her sister, before electrocuting herself when the drill punctures wiring in a wall.  Sam hears cries for help from a bedroom, and she enters to find Judi Ross, the daughter of coven leader Danica, hogtied on the bed. Danica had originally intended Judi to be the coven's virginal sacrifice, but after discovering that Judi had had sex to avoid this fate, Danica ordered Judi to be killed. Sam frees Judi and calls 911, but the call redirects to the coven, so the girls again flee.  Danica next tries to capture Sam by creating a "haxan cloak" creature from her dead husband's heart, but Sam escapes the creature with Judi's help. Gypsy questions Danica's leadership, and when the rest of the coven sides with Gypsy, Danica agrees to let Gypsy conduct a ritual to curse and kill Judi from afar. However, Judi, who is versed in witchcraft, manages with Sam's help to ward off the curse. An irate Gypsy confronts Danica about teaching her daughter the protection magic that allowed her to survive. Another coven member suddenly plunges a spike into Danica's head, apparently killing her. However, after the coven leaves in search of Sam, Danica resurrects herself. Using knowledge gained from reading the entrails of a man she murders, Danica tracks down and captures Sam and Judi.  Sam and Judi awaken tied to an altar in Danica's backyard, surrounded by the coven. Danica, triumphant and back in control of the coven, uses a spell to drown Gypsy. As she falls dead, Gypsy inadvertently breaks the protective circle of salt laid to prevent the ritual from being disturbed. The summoning begins, and Sam is supernaturally impregnated by Baphomet. An enraged Sam breaks free from her bonds and holds a knife to her now-pregnant belly, demanding Judi be released. Instead, Danica slashes Judi's throat and kills her.  Despondent, Sam suddenly goes into labor; to calm herself she repeats a "two fuzzy bunnies" mantra, and then she gives birth to two fuzzy bunnies (rather than Baphomet as intended) to the shock of the coven. Sam suddenly finds the yard empty of all coven members. A demon named Samaziel manifests in front of Sam in the guise of a little girl. Samaziel explains that it ranks higher than Baphomet among hell's demons and is angry that the coven did not worship it. Because the protective line of salt had been disturbed by Gypsy's death, Samaziel was able to enter and wreak havoc on the ritual. Sam convinces Samaziel to spare her, and as Sam flees, the yard is again populated with the coven. Danica is decapitated as Samaziel laughs. Coven members begin choking to death. Sam collects one of the bunnies (the other having been killed) and escapes on her Vespa as Samaziel waves goodbye.  Sam returns to the pizzeria, where she tells her boss she is going to Australia and leaves with her bunny, now named Judi Junior.