Marie-Josèphe, born and raised in a convent in France, is a rebellious free spirit who often causes trouble for the Abbess. Marie-Josèphe's father, King Louis XIV, fears for his own mortality after being wounded by an assassin's bullet, but is told by Dr. Labarthe about a magical underwater creature that can grant him immortality; the procedure involves cutting out the creature's heart during an eclipse. Louis sends a group of fishermen, led by Captain Yves De La Croix, to capture the creature, a mermaid. Her mate is also caught, but Yves releases him before heading back to France.  Per the king's request, father La Chaise travels to the convent to bring Marie-Josèphe back, giving her the impression that she is traveling to play music in Versailles. Upon arriving in Versailles, Marie-Josèphe befriends a servant named Magali, but no one else knows she is the king's daughter. The following morning, Louis meets with Jean-Michel Lintillac, son of a wealthy baron who is gravely ill and ready to pass on, making Lintillac inherit a fortune and prestige. While out for a stroll with Magali, Marie-Josèphe meets Yves, and the two fall in love. She also encounters Lintillac and her father for the first time, though he still doesn't tell her about his relation to her.  The mermaid is brought into a chamber beneath the castle. Later, as Marie-Josèphe tries to practice in her room, she follows a strange noise to the mermaid's prison, where she encounters both the creature and Yves. At a grand ball the next day, Marie-Josèphe shares a dance with Louis, and later finds him outside painting a picture of a woman called Louise, telling Marie-Josèphe that she reminds him of her.  Louis appoints Lintillac with the title of Duke, and later holds a dinner in his honor. Marie-Josèphe visits the mermaid again and joins her underwater. Yves later takes Marie-Josèphe for a horse ride, but she falls and severely breaks her arm; Labarthe states that the arm will need to be amputated. Yves brings Marie-Josèphe and Magali to the mermaid, who completely heals Marie-Josèphe's arm. Marie-Josèphe assumes that Louis has brought the mermaid to France to heal the citizens, but she is told that the mermaid is for the king's purpose only.  Louis arranges for Lintillac to marry Marie-Josèphe so that they can share in Lintillac's fortune. He comes clean to Marie-Josèphe about being her father and that he wants her to marry Lintillac. She refuses and runs away crying, leaving Louis feeling remorseful.  La Chaise visits the mermaid and, realizing she is a sentient being, he confronts Labarthe and Louis. He pleads with Louis not to kill the mermaid as doing so would condemn his soul as the mermaid is clearly one of God's creations due to being a sentient being. However, both refuse to change their minds. Marie-Josèphe visits the mermaid, who shows her a telepathic vision of her capture. Meanwhile, Yves slips a picture of the procedure under Marie-Josèphe's door, alerting her to the king's true plans. She confronts Louis, telling him that she will marry Lintillac if he lets the mermaid go, but he refuses. As everyone prepares for the wedding, La Chaise and Marie-Josèphe go to the chamber where Yves is trying to get the mermaid out. They are found by Labarthe, but they fight him off to give the mermaid time to escape. Labarthe shoots Yves, who falls into the water and is taken along by the fleeing mermaid. Marie-Josèphe gets Labarthe caught in a water wheel that pulls him underwater, drowning him.  Marie-Josèphe makes it to a cliff where she has promised to rendezvous with Yves and his crew, and finds Yves healed by the mermaid. Louis and his men arrive and prepare to kill the mermaid as the eclipse approaches, but giving him the choice to save either his own life or hers, Marie-Josèphe jumps off the cliff and hits the water hard. Louis has no choice but to tell his men to stand down so that the mermaid can revive Marie-Josèphe. Louis watches Marie-Josèphe and Yves leave, and the mermaid swims home. La Chaise tells Louis he is now a great king and a great man.  In the epilogue, Marie-Josèphe and Yves sail to find the city of Atlantis so that Marie-Josèphe may reunite with the mermaid, and she takes her underwater to see the city up close.