In 1957, the Jets, a gang of white youths, fight the Puerto Rican Sharks for control of San Juan Hill on Manhattan's Upper West Side. NYPD Sergeant Krupke and Lieutenant Schrank break up their latest skirmish, telling the gangs that their conflict is pointless since the neighborhood will soon be demolished to make way for the Lincoln Center. The gangs are too proud to care, and Jet leader Riff proposes a rumble between the two gangs. He approaches his friend Tony, who is on parole, for help. Tony refuses, wishing to turn over a new leaf with the help of Valentina, the Puerto Rican owner of Doc's general store. Meanwhile, María, Shark leader Bernardo's sister, is betrothed to his friend Chino but yearns for independence. At a neighborhood dance at the community center that night, Tony and María meet and fall in love, angering Bernardo, who agrees to Riff's terms for a rumble provided that Tony attends. Tony tells María of his love and the couple meets on her fire escape, promising to see each other the next day.  Bernardo and his girlfriend Anita argue about life in New York compared to Puerto Rico, with Anita's belief in the American Dream contrasting with Bernardo's pessimism. Police interrogate the Jets about the rumble, but they deny any knowledge. During their date at the Cloisters, Tony reveals to María that his year-long imprisonment for nearly beating a rival gang member to death had scarred him into reforming. María makes Tony promise to stop the rumble, and they pledge their love to one another. Tony tries to convince Riff to call off the rumble by stealing his newly bought gun, but the Jets steal it back, with Riff reasserting that the rumble will happen as scheduled. Schrank orders Krupke and the police to stop the rumble from occurring, but they are unsuccessful. To avoid violence, Tony attempts to intervene and explains himself to Bernardo, who uses his boxing skills to lay some hits against Tony. However, Tony refuses to fight until Bernardo appears to go after Riff. Tony begins landing a few punches but stops short of knocking Bernardo out cold. Unwilling to let Tony walk away, Bernardo goes after him and grabs his knife while Riff grabs his. After a brief duel, Bernardo fatally stabs Riff before Tony fatally stabs him in a fit of rage. The gangs flee when the police arrive, and Chino finds Riff's gun.  María gushes about her love for Tony to her fellow female co-workers in the late-night cleaning crew at the Gimbels department store. Once their shift is over, María spots Chino, who approaches her and reveals that Tony killed Bernardo, distressing her. When she meets Tony later, she refuses to let him turn himself in as it would mean losing him as well, and they plan to run away together. Valentina learns of Bernardo and Riff's deaths and laments the situation while reflecting on her interracial relationship with the late Doc. Meanwhile, Chino plots to kill Tony over the Sharks' protests. After identifying Bernardo's body at the morgue, Anita returns home and sees María and Tony together as he leaves the apartment. Anita argues with María but eventually accepts that she and Tony are in love. While Schrank interrogates María about Tony's whereabouts, she sends Anita to warn him about Chino. However, Anita encounters the Jets, who shout racial slurs and attempt to gang-rape her until Valentina intervenes. Traumatized, Anita calls Valentina a traitor for housing the Jets and spitefully claims that Chino killed María, vowing to return to Puerto Rico and giving up all hope of her American dream. Valentina condemns the Jets, who disperse in shame.  Valentina relays Anita's message to Tony, who runs into the streets, begging for Chino to kill him. María arrives, to his relief, but Chino emerges and shoots Tony, who dies in María's arms. Devastated, María takes the gun and aims it at the gathered Jets and Sharks, berating them for the senseless deaths their conflict caused, before tearfully dropping the gun. As the police arrive to arrest Chino, the gangs come together to carry Tony's body into Doc's, with María following.