Kumail is an Uber driver and struggling stand-up comedian in Chicago. His parents are first-generation immigrants from Pakistan, who live in the suburbs. One evening, after performing at the local comedy club, Kumail sleeps with a graduate student from the University of Chicago named Emily. He drives her home and they agree not to meet again.  Kumail visits his family over the weekend, where his mother tries to set him up for an arranged marriage. Kumail is not interested but plays along. Meanwhile, Kumail and Emily continue hooking up and eventually start dating. Emily confesses to him her past divorce, then reveals she feels strongly about him. Kumail, however, dodges any requests to meet her parents. When she discovers that he has been seeing other women for potential marriage, she breaks up with him.  Although heartbroken, Kumail moves on, focusing on stand-up and securing an audition for the Montreal Comedy Festival. One night, he is informed that Emily has been admitted to the hospital. He goes to drive her home, but is pressured by doctors into giving permission to place Emily into an induced coma for treatment. Kumail signs the medical release, then informs Emily's parents in North Carolina.  Terry and Beth arrive the next day. They are hostile to Kumail for his break-up with Emily, but Terry allows Kumail to continue visiting. Emily undergoes surgery for a rapidly spreading infection, but fails to stabilize. Doctors are unable to diagnose her illness, and Beth ponders moving her to a better hospital.  Distracted with Emily's condition, Kumail ignores his parents' continued demands about marriage. He tells them about Emily and they refuse to speak with him. Meanwhile, Emily's infection grows unchecked. Kumail learns that she could die, causing him to fail his Montreal audition.  The next morning, Emily's health suddenly improves and she is brought out of the coma. Terry and Beth, who have grown to like Kumail during this time, ask him to visit. Emily is diagnosed with a rare adult-onset Still's disease. She will fully recover but has lower inhibitions, and rebuffs Kumail when he arrives to see her. At a party celebrating her recovery, Kumail asks Emily to get back together, but she refuses.  Emily later watches a video of Kumail's Montreal audition. She realizes the extent of his efforts to keep seeing her despite family pressure, and visits him at the local theater. Kumail informs her that he is moving to New York City to pursue stand-up. Emily is disappointed but wishes him luck.  Kumail starts to patch his relationship with his family before leaving Chicago. In NYC, he performs at a local club and is heckled, albeit encouragingly, by a female audience member. He turns to see that it is Emily, and she hints that she is there to meet him. End credits show his marriage with Emily, in which he reconciled with his parents.