By 1979, Texan rodeo star Mike Milo has retired due to a severe back injury. The following year, his former boss Howard Polk, a ranch owner, hires him to travel to Mexico City and bring Howard's 15-year-old son, Rafo, to live with him. He agrees and upon reaching Mexico City, he meets the boy's mother, Leta (Fernanda Urrejola), who runs several illicit businesses. She pretends to be agreeable as previous attempts by Howard to get the boy have failed, and tells him that Rafo has turned to a life of crime, and participates in cockfights with his rooster, Macho. Soon after, Mike finds Rafo participating in a cockfight that is interrupted by a police raid. After the police depart, Mike approaches Rafo and tells him that his father wants to him to come and live with him. Although he has misgivings, Rafo, intrigued, agrees to go with Mike back to Texas and leaves to collect his things.  Mike then reports to Leta that he and Rafo are leaving, whereupon she becomes hostile, threatening him should he proceed further. After Mike leaves, Leta orders several of her henchmen to follow him. Mike then sets off back to Texas alone, but discovers that Rafo has snuck into his truck with Macho. When Rafo steals his wallet and shares his desire to spend time with his father, Mike agrees to take him after all. During the drive there, the pair share stories about their lives, including how Leta's henchmen used to abuse Rafo, and discuss the meaning of being "macho."  At a restaurant, Mike phones Howard and tells him that he has found Rafo. Outside of the restaurant, one of Leta's henchmen, Aurelio, tries to forcefully take Rafo and tells the locals that Mike has kidnapped him. Rafo yells out that Aurelio is a molester and they beat him up. After Mike and Rafo leave, Mike's truck is stolen by thieves. Walking to the next town Mike buys new clothes to fit in better and Rafo "borrows" an abandoned car to use. At a cantina, they meet the owner, Marta, who helps them evade police officers searching for them. They hit the road only to turn around after passing through one of the many police checkpoints along the highway. Returning to the town during a rain storm, they seek shelter in a shrine. Mike tells Rafo that he lost his wife and children in a car accident.  Recognizing the car, Marta finds them and brings them breakfast. Rafo discovers their car has a leak and Mike tells him they have to stay put for now. After coming across a ranch, Mike offers his services in helping break the wild horses, in the process teaching Rafo how to ride a horse and demonstrating his love for animals. The pair return to Marta's cafe and spend some time with her family. On a phone call with Mike, Howard expresses his concern that Mike has been in Mexico for two weeks, longer than expected. When Aurelio and police officers turn up asking for Mike and Rafo, the two sneak away, running into Marta and saying a brief goodbye. They find a new car and start their final drive to the border.  On the highway once again, Mike notices a patrol car following them and turns off suddenly to lose the tail. Mike reveals that Howard told him over the phone that he wants Rafo simply to battle Leta in court for her money. An angry Rafo tries to leave but the police pull up and search their vehicle. When they find nothing, the police officers leave and the pair continues their journey. Whilst driving, Mike tells Rafo that being "macho" is overrated and encourages him to make his own decisions in life. Rafo decides that he still wants to be with his father. Aurelio then finds them, runs them off the road, and holds them at gunpoint. However, Macho jumps at him enabling Mike to grab his gun. They then use Aurelio's car to make it to the border. As a final goodbye, Rafo gives Macho to Mike before reuniting with his father. Mike remains on the Mexican side of the border and returns to Marta.