In 1986, Vesuvius, a glam metal band from Cleveland, Ohio, performs at a local theater. After the show, their manager informs them that a record company is interested in signing them, but only if they replace drummer Robert "Fish" Fishman with the nephew of the record company's president. At first the band refuses, as they have been together since high school and agree that Fish is the heart and soul of their band, but when their manager tells them they would get to tour as the opening act for Whitesnake, the band relents and drives away in their van, without Fish.  Twenty years later, Vesuvius remains an immensely successful band, while Fish is living a normal life. Matt Gadman, Fish's high school-aged nephew, plays keyboards in an alternative rock band called A.D.D., along with his friends Curtis Powell and Amelia Stone. The band is scheduled to play their school's prom but the gig is in jeopardy when their drummer gets suspended from school. Matt convinces the others to allow Fish to fill in.  The concert goes well at first, as Fish is still a natural talent on drums (in spite of not playing in 20 years), but he ruins the gig when he gets carried away and launches into an impromptu drum solo during a ballad. However, Fish is so excited by Curtis' songs and the chance to play again, he convinces them to let him join the band if he can deliver another gig. After repeated failed attempts, he finally succeeds in securing a gig at a club in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Because the other members are all minors, they have to sneak out to the gig but are apprehended in the process, as Fish borrowed his sister's minivan without permission, which she reported as stolen. Fish is forced to leave and rents the basement of a Chinese restaurant.  The band invents a new way to practice via four-way iChat. To the dismay of his bandmates, Fish performs in the nude due to the heat of his new residence. The video of the practice quickly goes viral under the title of the "naked drummer band". The band is signed to a recording contract by the same label as Vesuvius, and are sent on a midwest tour. However, Fish commits stereotypical acts, despite the physical costs on his body, and he vandalizes a hotel room, causing the band to be apprehended again.  After securing A.D.D.'s release, Kim, Curtis' mother, promises the other parents she will stay for the remainder of the tour, so their kids won't be influenced by Fish's antics.  The label asks A.D.D. to open a show for Vesuvius honoring their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Fish refuses to play the gig and Kim kisses him in a failed attempt to convince him to let go of his anger and finally move on. David sees the kiss and exaggerates the details of the ordeal to Curtis. At a later gig, Curtis announces they would be playing the show, angering Fish and driving him to leave the band. When the new drummer from the label proves to be lazy, Curtis eventually apologizes to Fish and convinces him to put aside his resentment and play the show. After meeting Vesuvius before the show to discover they have become vain and arrogant while sporting fake British accents (except for the drummer, who is actually English), Fish decides to forgive Vesuvius and wishes them good luck. Fish and the band perform to a standing ovation. After their gig, Amelia and Curtis, as well as Fish and Kim both begin a relationship. During Vesuvius' set, the lead singer's microphone falls off the stand while the voice track of their song continues revealing that they have been lip-syncing. Vesuvius' recording malfunctions, revealing their lip-synching to the audience, who boos them off the stage and their Hall of Fame membership is rescinded. The audience chants an encore for A.D.D., who fire David and perform for the crowd once again.