Norman Oppenheimer is a small-time "fixer" in New York City who makes money by doing favors for and arranging access to politicos and other power brokers. He befriends Micha Eshel, an Israeli politician, buying him an expensive pair of shoes and using him to wrangle an invitation to the home of Arthur Taub, an important businessman. Taub quickly recognizes Norman as an opportunist and tells him to leave. On a train, Norman meets Alex Green, an Israeli criminal investigator, telling her all about his business and his relationship to Eshel, even diagramming his connections on a piece of paper. She pays close attention and keeps the paper.  Three years later, Eshel becomes Prime Minister of Israel and visits the United States to meet with the President, speak to the United Nations, and sign a peace treaty with Israel's neighbors. He greets Norman effusively at a large reception covered by the media and introduces him to a panoply of powerful people. Norman's life changes rapidly as he is approached by those who want to take advantage of his influence.  Norman is asked by his synagogue and its leader, Rabbi Blumenthal, to help them raise millions of dollars to save their building, so Norman arranges a quid pro quo with a powerful businessman, Jo Wilf, who wants to make a deal with Israel. Norman uses his nephew Philip, a lawyer who has an inside connection at Harvard University, to get Eshel's son accepted to the school—in exchange for persuading Blumenthal to conduct the marriage of Philip and his fiancée, a Korean woman who is not a Jew. However, Eshel and his wife have second thoughts about accepting favors from Norman as Eshel is caught up in an Israeli bribery scandal being investigated by Green.  Norman arranges to meet with Green at the Israeli consulate, but Philip implores him not to do so as he believes Eshel's political career is doomed and as he suspects Norman is also under investigation. Norman calls Eshel's aides and offers to give them any information he can get from Green, but they forbid the meeting, telling Norman that it is a severe crime, that he must stop using Eshel's name, and that Eshel is not Norman's friend. But they call him back, assuming he won't be able to keep his mouth shut, and tell him that whoever is supposed to have compromised Eshel is a criminal who is making up stories and who doesn't even know the Prime Minister. Norman immediately conveys these claims to a man, Srul Katz, who is following him and who turns out to be another would-be fixer.  At the consulate, Green tells Norman that he is the bribery suspect, but that if he will testify against Eshel, Norman will not face prosecution. He leaves and goes to the synagogue, where the furious rabbi, having realized that Norman made false promises, throws him into a pile of garbage. As Norman sits amid the garbage, Eshel calls him and tells him he is sorry he will have to denounce him in order to maintain his position and sign the peace treaty. Norman vows never to betray him.  Norman arranges a meeting with Jo Wilf. What he reveals allows Wilf to make billions on an Israel-Turkey natural gas pipeline. All of the fixes Norman has set in motion are successful: Philip gets married, Eshel's son gets into Harvard, the synagogue gets the money it needs, the peace treaty is signed, and Eshel is not impeached. Norman is never deposed in the bribery investigation as he buys a bag of peanuts, to which he has a deadly allergy, throws away his EpiPen, and prepares to eat the nuts.