After conversing with security guard Reese Wilson about a murder spree that had happened on the campus where she had previously worked, Amy Mayfield, a student at prestigious film school Alpine University, is inspired to make her thesis film about a serial killer murdering in the fashion of urban legends. Meanwhile, fellow student Lisa has a drink with classmate Travis Stark at a bar before her flight. Starting to feel dazed, she is attacked and awakens in a bathtub filled with ice, discovering that her kidney has been removed. Attacked by her abductor, she tries to flee through the window, but is decapitated.  The next day, Amy is preparing to shoot her film but the assigned camera man, Toby Belcher, quits and accuses her of stealing his thesis idea. When Sandra Petruzzi, Amy's actress friend who played a victim in a scene, returns to an empty studio after forgetting her keys, she is killed with a straight razor. Her peers witness her filmed death when the material is smuggled into a sequence of takes of the scene. Amy is disturbed by it, but her peers discount it as part of a showreel.  Travis is said to have committed suicide in the campus tower. At his funeral, Graham Manning, the son of a Hollywood director, offers to help Amy with her film; when she declines, he reveals that her father was a famous documentarian, which she has concealed from most of their peers. Afterwards, Travis' twin brother, Trevor, shares his belief that his brother was murdered. Later, while Amy is recording audio loops of screams for the film, the killer, wearing a fencing mask, fatally beats replacement cameraman Simon Jabuscko outside with his own camera, and the audio is inadvertently recorded. He then attacks and chases her through the campus but she evades him.  Before the filming of another scene in an empty carnival ride, sophomores Stan Washington and Dirk Reynolds are attacked and electrocuted while preparing the set. Amy discovers the corpses, escapes a confrontation with the killer, and informs the police, who attribute the deaths to accidental electrocution. Trevor comforts Amy, and during their period of sexual intercourse, he suddenly stabs her. She awakens, realizing that it was only a dream, but then notices a light inside the bell tower. When Amy arrives there, her friend Vanessa Valdeon presents a note addressed to her that Amy supposedly wrote expressing romantic feelings for Vanessa, but Amy denies writing the note. The killer startles them and pursues them after Amy presses a panic button. Once she reaches the top, the killer locks her in a closet, where she finds the corpses of Simon and Sandra. Upon breaking free, she finds Vanessa hanging from the bell. Amy runs out passing Reese, who was notified of the disturbance via the campus security system.  Trevor tells Amy all the victims worked on Travis' thesis film. After watching some footage, they suspect Toby, the only person who worked on the film that is still alive, kidnap him, and summon Professor Solomon to an empty film set to present their suspicions. However, Toby reveals that he never went anywhere near Travis' film. Graham encounters the confrontation, and in the confusion, Solomon reveals himself as the killer, attempting to frame Amy and usurp the Hitchcock Awardwhich includes a large stipendby presenting Travis' film as his own. In the ensuing melee, Amy wrestles his gun from him and holds him at gunpoint. Reese stumbles upon the scene, and a standoff occurs. Solomon leaps at Amy, who discharges the gun in his abdomen.  At the Hitchcock Awards ceremony a few months later, Trevor attends to accept the award on his brother's behalf. As he goes onstage, Reese shoots production assistant Kevin, who appears as a sniper in the rafters. The altercation is revealed to be a scene in Amy's new film, Urban Legends, on which Toby and Graham are working on her behalf. Later, Solomon, now using a wheelchair, is in a mental institution where, after he watches Amy's film, a nurse (Brenda Bates, from the original film) asks him if he enjoyed the movie. She wheels him out, explaining that they have a lot in common.