On Christmas Eve in Laurel, Illinois, Julie Reyes runs into rising pop star Stuart Bale on a train. He mistakes her for a fan when she tries to return his phone to him, to which she takes offense, despite his apologies.  After the train is stopped by snowed-over tracks, Julie gets off to walk home, Stuart joins her and offers lunch at a local diner called Waffle Town. She reluctantly agrees and later has to save him from a group of fangirl cheerleaders. Julie reveals to Stuart she got accepted to Columbia and her mom is also deathly sick, but if she delays leaving, she will lose the scholarship.  They go sledding and meet Julie's mother, Debbie. Going to Julie's, Stuart is introduced to her grandpa and they bond over Mick Jagger. Everyone dances to one of his songs. While dancing, Debbie has a coughing fit, causing Julie concern. Stuart offers to get a nurse for her mom, offending her. He dismisses her concerns, stating he offered it because he cares about Julie. They almost kiss before Stuart's publicist shows up to take him back to his hotel. He asks Julie to come with him, but she declines, feeling a need to stay with her mother.  Across town, Waffle Town employee Dorrie tries to juggle her best friend, Addie, who is worried that her boyfriend is going to break up with her, and Kerry, a cheerleader Dorrie hooked up with. Kerry visits the diner with her friends and pretends not to know Dorrie; Addie makes a scene with her boyfriend in the diner. Dorrie tries to calm Addie down, but she storms off.  Later, Dorrie and Kerry meet in the bathroom, kissing passionately. Dorrie tells Keon that Kerry will probably be at the party. Meanwhile, Tobin plans to tell his best friend, Angie, 'The Duke', he likes her. They are invited to a party by Duke's friend, JP, whom Tobin sees as competition. The three steal the keg from the party, ending up in a ditch. Waiting for the tow truck in a nearby church, Duke has Tobin play "Whole of the Moon", but when JP and Duke start dancing together, Tobin leaves. Duke attempts to talk to him about it, but he brushes her off, angering her.  Tobin's friend, Keon, attempts to arrange a party to impress a big time DJ at his house, but his parents shut down the party attempt and he gets called into work at Waffle Town. His friend and fellow co-worker, Billy, offers Waffle Town as a party spot, provided he get the necessary supplies. Back at home, Julie's mom convinces her to go to Columbia, stating "when life offers you something special, you take it". Everyone ends up at Keon's party after Tobin arrives with the stolen keg. Duke comes and Tobin confesses his love for her, to which she admits the same.  Addie returns to Waffle Town and apologizes to Dorrie for her rude behavior. Kerry also apologizes to her for being hot and cold, kisses her in the open, and they begin a relationship. Dorrie and Julie are telling each other about their day when Stuart returns, wanting to see Julie again before he leaves town. They kiss and make plans to meet in New York when she's at Columbia. Keon's party ends up a success, despite the DJ not coming, and they dance all night long.