Jill Davies is a housewife who lives in a bizarre, unnamed suburban town, where all the adults wear dental braces and drive golf carts instead of cars. She is married to Nick, with a seven year old son named Julian and an infant daughter named Madison. She is friends and rivals with Lisa Wetbottom, placing Julian and Lisa’s son, Bob, in competition with each other. Throughout the movie, Jill is stalked by a mysterious giggling person.  Jill chats with Lisa on the sideline of their children’s soccer game. They briefly discuss the recent murder of a local yoga teacher before Lisa compliments Madison. On a whim, Jill asks if Lisa would like to have Madison as her own daughter; Lisa accepts.  Jill and Nick are frustrated by Julian, an eccentric young boy who is bad at sports and frequently urinates himself. After Jill and Julian argue at Nick’s birthday party, Julian sings “Happy Birthday to You” to his father before abruptly falling face-first into the swimming pool. When he re-emerges, he has turned into a golden retriever. Jill and Nick continue sending Julian to school dressed in human clothing. Nick delights in playing with his newly athletic “son,” but Jill misses Julian as he used to be, and their marriage begins to fray.  In the parking lot after school, Jill asks Lisa if she could have Madison (now named Paige) back. Lisa, hurt, refuses to let her go. Later at a soccer game, Lisa picks up the soccer ball and places it under her dress, mimicking a baby bump. She is congratulated by her friends for her pregnancy, and eventually “gives birth” to the soccer ball, naming it “Twilson” and treating it as a third child.  After encouragement from her friends while bowling, Jill tells Nick that she wants a divorce, casting him out of the house. Upon returning one day, he finds Julian alone in the backyard without clothes on while Jill is out getting a haircut. Aghast, Nick takes Julian from Jill, devastating her. She rings Lisa’s doorbell and begs for her daughter back, but Lisa angrily refuses, telling Jill that it’s her fault she has no children anymore. Jill returns home, only to run into her stalker, a delusional middle-aged woman who screams at Jill to get out of her house.  Manic and distraught, Jill rides her golf cart out of town and onto the highway, stopping near a cow pasture to remove her braces with wire cutters. She arrives at the house where she grew up, currently occupied by a single woman with three children. After asking if she can have one of the woman’s children, Jill kidnaps one and takes her to a diner. There, she sees on the news that her stalker (who also murdered the yoga teacher) was arrested after being discovered by Lisa.  Returning to town the next day, Jill watches her kidnapped “daughter” play soccer with the other children. She learns that Lisa had moved her family into Jill’s house, with Nick serving as a pool boy. After realizing that the children are playing soccer over graves, Jill stands up from the bleachers and declares that she needs to get out. The referee admonishes her for being “out of bounds,” and Jill immediately sits back down.