Nat and Anoushka give birth, as they hold hands, to two girls named Ginger and Rosa. Ginger and Rosa grow to become best friends and by 1962, the two are inseparable. Ginger is a compassionate girl with a desire to help the world and Rosa is a passionate young girl with a wild and an almost ungovernable personality. After hearing about the Cuban Missile Crisis on the radio, Ginger becomes interested in the Anti-nuclear movement. She voices her concerns about the dangers of nuclear devastation to Rosa, who attempts to assuage her concerns by taking her to church. Ginger finds validation in her concerns through a group of older activists consisting of Mark 1 portrayed by Timothy Spall, Mark 2 portrayed by Oliver Platt, and Bella.  An argument over dinner leads to Roland and Nat separating. Soon after, Ginger discovers her mother has been asking the school to have more "domestic science" courses so that Ginger is more prepared for life than she had been. When Ginger discovers this, she is outraged and tells her mother that she will never have children. Ginger moves out and begins to live with her father, who has started a relationship with Rosa. Ginger is deeply disturbed when she finds out and even more so after Rosa tells her that she thinks she is pregnant. Ginger is devastated and runs off to a protest rally where she is arrested.   After being questioned by a psychiatrist and then returning home, Ginger feverishly voices her concerns about the end of the world. However, Ginger's frantic worries about the world are a front for her anxiety caused by Roland and Rosa's relationship. Ginger blurts out the truth of the affair leading to a devastated Nat. Rosa and her mother arrive and after seeing Rosa clutch her stomach, Nat deduces she's pregnant and runs upstairs. Ginger and Mark quickly follow her, only to find the door is locked. They call Roland, who breaks the door in, and they find that Nat, though still conscious, has taken an overdose. Nat is rushed to the hospital and Rosa pleads Ginger to forgive her.  As Roland and Ginger wait for Nat in the hospital, Ginger writes a letter to Rosa, in the form of a poem. In it, she discusses their friendship and differing outlooks, pointing out that Rosa dreams of "everlasting love", while Ginger "loves this world". The poem ends on a hopeful note: Ginger tells Rosa that if everything works out, then there will be nothing to forgive, but she'll forgive her anyway. Roland apologises to Ginger, but she turns away from him and continues to write.