Emma Allan (Hathaway) and Olivia "Liv" Lerner (Hudson) are childhood best friends who have planned every detail of their weddings, since first witnessing a wedding 20 years ago at the Plaza Hotel. They both have made it a top priority to be married there in June.   While hanging out at Liv's apartment in the present day, they find a Tiffany box hidden in the closet. Both are excited, knowing Liv will soon get a proposal from her boyfriend. That same night Emma's boyfriend proposes to her at home. Liv gets restless waiting for her boyfriend to pop the question and confronts him at his office the morning after Emma's engagement. He had been planning on doing it that night but then asks her on the spot.  Both women start planning and expect to be each other's maid of honor. They schedule a meeting with New York's most famous wedding planner, Marion St. Claire, who tells them there are three spots open at The Plaza in June: Two on the same day and one a few weeks later. They each choose a different day, but due to a clerical error, wind up both scheduled to have their weddings on June 6 (three and a half months later).  They ask the third bride, Stacey, to switch her June 27 date with Emma, but she refuses. Liv fights with her as she is registering for gifts, causing Liv and Emma to be escorted out of the store. After a week of passive-aggressive hostility, it is clear that neither will compromise. Emma's fiancé, Fletcher(Pratt), begins to be controlling.    The women declare war after a slight misunderstanding that Liv already announced her wedding date, outraging Emma who set her date as well, which Liv discovers at their shared bridal shower. They threaten and insult each other in front of their friends, who decide not to take sides.   Both attempt to sabotage the other's wedding by: Liv changing Emma's dance instructor, Emma secretly sending Liv candy so her dress won't fit, Liv making Emma's spray tan bright orange, Emma changing Liv's hair dye to a shocking blue, Liv registering Emma on Babies R Us and spreading rumors that she is pregnant. So Emma shows up to Liv's invite-only bachelorette party to outdance her.   Emma and Fletcher argue over her maniacal behavior, sabotaging Liv's wedding and their friendship, and how Emma has changed since they first met. The couple undergoes strains in their relationship because of her newfound outspokenness and self-confidence. In contrast, Liv has learned to be more sensitive and expressive. However, her stress about the wedding and strained friendship with Emma causes her demotion at work as an attorney.  Both soon-to-be-brides are shown at the Plaza very shortly before their ceremonies, separately. Right before Liv begins her march to the altar, she gets Emma's father's blessing; she immediately regrets setting up a wild spring break DVD to play at Emma's wedding. She sends her assistant Kevin to replace the DVD with the one filled with childhood memories. Believing it is a prank, he does not do it. Before the brides enter their respective venues, they share a brief moment of reconciliation and smile at each other.  Emma begins walking down the aisle but stops when the footage of her spring break is shown. Losing it, she tackles Liv at her wedding on the other side. Wrestling in their dresses on the floor, they shock the guests, Fletcher, and Emma's parents who are standing in the doorway.   Emma walks over to Fletcher who is upset at her behavior, telling him she is not the same person he fell in love with 10 years ago and that she has changed. With that, they call off their wedding. Liv's wedding resumes after they reconcile. Emma, now Liv's maid of honor, later dances with Liv's brother Nate, a well-known magazine journalist.  A year later, Liv and Emma meet up for drinks, where it's revealed that Emma married Nate. She offers a toast to marriage but Emma says she's not drinking. When Liv says she's not either, they realise they are both pregnant and their due dates are the same: March 3. The best friends squeal with excitement and hug happily.