A young woman named Arlen is exiled to a desert outside Texas, where people deemed undesirable by the government (the "bad batch") are forced to fend for themselves. A sign declares the area outside of the US and that American laws and citizenship no longer apply. Arlen is soon kidnapped by two women in a golf cart. When she wakes chained up, a woman cuts off her right arm and leg. Arlen tricks the woman into unchaining her, kills her, observes cannibalism of human limbs, and escapes crawling on a skateboard. She is rescued in the desert by a mute hermit, who takes her to a makeshift settlement named Comfort that has all-night raves.  Five months later, Arlen has a prosthetic leg and a home in Comfort. She walks out to the desert with a pistol. Investigating a golf cart similar to the one used by the cannibals, she finds a woman and little girl scavenging in a garbage dump. Accusing the woman of being part of the cannibal community, Arlen shoots her in the head. She is observed by the hermit as she takes the girl, Honey, back to Comfort. Miami Man, a leader of the cannibals and the father of Honey, goes looking for her, finding the dead woman, and then the hermit. The hermit, in exchange for a hand-sketched portrait, advises Miami Man to "find Comfort".  In Comfort, Arlen takes a hallucinogen at a rave held by The Dream, the cult-like leader of Comfort, and loses track of the child, who is taken in by The Dream.  Hallucinating, Arlen wanders out into the desert, where Miami Man finds her. Upon threat of death, he demands that she find his daughter in Comfort.  Arlen and Miami Man grow closer on their journey to Comfort. He kills another cannibal who is looking to trade gasoline for her flesh and reveals that he was put into the lawless territory because he was an illegal immigrant from Cuba. However, another man shoots Miami Man in the chest, and Arlen somewhat reluctantly returns to Comfort. She searches for Honey, eventually discovering she is living in The Dream's mansion, along with his large harem of pregnant young women.  Arlen visits The Dream, who explains that Comfort's economy is run on the drugs his concubines make, and that Comfort is free of feces because of the plumbing he provides. Arlen agrees to join his harem but uses a pistol she has hidden inside her prosthetic to hold one of the pregnant concubines hostage. After extracting the girl, they head out of Comfort in a golf cart and reunite with Miami Man, who had been found and healed by the hermit.  The child and Miami Man blissfully reunite, and Arlen implies she would rather stay with him in the desert than live in Comfort. Miami Man tries to discourage her, deeming her unable to survive out in the harsh desert, but does not send her away. Honey asks for spaghetti, as she had grown accustomed to good things in the mansion. Instead, Miami Man takes his daughter's pet rabbit, and later the three of them lounge by a fire eating it. Miami Man rubs his teary daughter's back, and then he and Arlen look into each other's eyes, smiling.