LA-based wine executive Lola feels underappreciated by her boss Calder at Mythos, who pays no attention to her ideas. A chef, knowing of her frustration, introduces her to a little-known wine of an Australian company which has yet to go international.  Lola secretly tells her workmate Audra about the Vaughn winery, who then pitches them to their boss behind Lola's back. So, she starts up her own company and flies to Australia to secure a potential client.   Initially signing up for their AirBNB accommodation, Lola immediately tries to pitch Hazel, who quickly turns her down. Discovering they are short a hired hand, she volunteers to work on the client's sheep farm under station boss Max to prove her moxie.   Thrown into the manual labor, Lola's workmates haze her, and she oversteps with excessively long showers and blowing the circuit breaker. She learns to mend fences, to not mix differently tagged sheep, to load a manure spreader but after five days she has given up.  Max's truck breaks down on the way into town to catch a flight. So, on returning to the farm, Max tells Lola she shouldn't give up. As she has the night to mull it over, she is inspired by a book about the farm's matriarch. Lola fixes the hot water heater, and gradually earns the trust of her fellow hired hands.   Lola finally participates in the 'hands' evening gathering, showing she has a good singing voice. After a day, she finally helps with shearing, at night she invited into the family's pool by Max. Later, over a game of pool, he and Hazel discuss Lola's proposal to export with her company, revealing that Max is Hazel's brother.   Lola and Max visit the Vaughn vineyard and then camp overnight. After a tour and fence-mending together, that night they finally show their feelings to one another. The next morning, Max reveals the secret that he is a Vaughn, his sister's silent partner, upsetting Lola. Feeling betrayed, she returns to the sheep farm, discovers her former boss and Audra negotiating with Hazel to sign a contract to import Vaughn wines to the US. Calder tries to lure her back, but she is unwavering.  Months later, Lola is back in California, working with Audra again with her tiny wine distribution company. Max appears at Lola's wine expo stand, declares his feelings and that his winery has dropped Calder's company for hers and that he wants to be with her. They reconcile and return to Australia to celebrate Station Hand Sam's wedding.