In India, a businessman fails to catch his train, "The Darjeeling Limited," as it pulls out of a station; he is beaten to it by a younger man, Peter Whitman. Peter reunites with his brothers Francis and Jack on board, the three having not seen each other since their father's funeral a year earlier.  Francis, the oldest, has recently survived a near-fatal motorcycle accident, leaving his face and head covered in bandages, and wishes to reconcile with his brothers on a journey of spiritual self-discovery. He is also covertly searching for their mother Patricia, whom the brothers have not seen in many years. With the help of his assistant, Brendan, Francis draws up a strict itinerary for the trip and confiscates his brothers' passports to prevent them from getting off the train too early. The brothers also continue to grieve over their father's death: all three carry many items of luggage marked with his initials, along with other personal items that belonged to him.  The train takes the brothers through the countryside and to various Hindu temples, though tension builds as Peter and Jack become infuriated with Francis' controlling behavior. Francis eventually reveals that they will be meeting with their mother, who has become a nun living at a Christian convent in the Himalayas. Peter and Jack are angry, Francis knows they would not have come if they had been told this earlier. The atmosphere finally comes to a head, and the brothers have a physical altercation on the train, distressing the other passengers. The Chief Steward, whom the brothers have repeatedly wronged, has them thrown off with all their luggage. Brendan subsequently quits and returns to the train after giving the brothers a letter from their mother; its contents imply that she does not want to see them. The brothers thus decide to leave India, go their separate ways, and never return.  After hiking through the wilderness, the brothers see three young boys fall into a river while attempting to pull a raft across it. Jack and Francis rescue two of the boys, but Peter fails to save the third, who dies. They carry the body back to the boys' village, where they spend the night and are treated kindly. They attend the funeral the next day and experience a flashback detailing the day of their father’s funeral. Along with Alice, Peter's wife, the brothers stop to pick up their father's Porsche from a repair shop on their way to the funeral. When the mechanic tells them it is missing a part and the battery is dead, Peter frantically tries to get it moving, though Francis and Jack are against this. After a confrontation with a truck driver, Peter agrees to give up, and the three drive to the funeral in the car they arrived in. It is revealed that their father's death was a result of his being hit by a taxi, and that their mother did not attend the funeral.  Back in the present, the brothers arrive at the airport, but they suddenly decide to rip up their tickets and go visit their mother. They reach the convent, where their mother Patricia is surprised but overjoyed to see them, and Francis coyly admits that his accident was actually a suicide attempt. That night, after the brothers confront Patricia for abandoning them, the family gathers together in silence, and reconnects in love. The brothers awake the next morning to find their mother gone, leaving them their breakfast. They decide not to wait for her to return.  At the train station, the brothers run for another train, the "Bengal Lancer," and gleefully discard all their father's suitcases and bags to catch it. On board, Francis offers to return Peter and Jack their passports, but is told instead to hold onto them. Francis says, "Let's go get a drink, and smoke a cigarette," and the brothers leave their compartment.