Living in LA, Andrea Singer is a stand-up comedian and a struggling aspiring actress. She is frustrated that Serrena, another woman who has been there for as long as her, is much more successful than she is. At the airport on the way home from an audition in NYC, Andrea meets Dennis Kelley when he returns her missing boarding pass.  On the flight, Andrea finds herself sitting next to Dennis, who tells her that he's a Yale graduate who works in hedge funds. They hit it off and begin hanging out together as friends in the city. Dennis joins her for drinks at her best friend Margot's bar.  Andrea sees Dennis as both pompous and humble, and different than most everyone else. Available to her whenever she's free, he helps her prepare for auditions and they become good friends. Andrea is not even remotely attracted to Dennis.  After a gig at The Comedy Store, Dennis asks Andrea to be his girlfriend over an expensive dinner his credit card is declined to pay, but she isn't interested. Complimenting her, he claims he had ordered her a bracelet at Cartier but had to return it as it wasn't what he'd asked for.  Shortly after, Andrea gets the lead in a series being shot in Vancouver called Space Cadet. She's with Margot when she gets the call. Excited, she calls Dennis to share the news. He proposes they go out on Friday to celebrate, but she already has a date.  On Friday night, Dennis interrupts Andrea's date to spend time with him under the false pretense that his mother is dying of cancer. They get high and go out, hooking up at the end of the night. In the morning, Andrea agrees to be his girlfriend.  As Andrea and Dennis get closer, she and her friend Margot start to question if he is all that he claims. They drive to the address Andrea has for him under the pretense of leaving him a gift. She learns Dennis has lied about his house and that he has two female roommates.  Andrea confronts Dennis over lying about his living situation, and he further lies about his sick mother living in his house, which she believes. They go to Santa Monica to spend the weekend with her cousin Brett and Alli, both doctors and Yale alumni. Andrea surprises them with a gift of a round of golf, as the men are supposedly golfers. But Dennis fakes an injury to get out of it. That evening Andrea, beginning to be really suspicious, asks Dennis about his diploma, the bracelet and his mother. He presents her with a gaudy ring, meant to be a pre-engagement one.  Back in LA, Margot calls Andrea to give her more dirt on him right before the table read for the pilot. Serrena shows as a guest. Although furious she infiltrated her first big acting gig, Andrea later enlists Serrena's help in investigating Dennis with Margot.  The house he claimed was his is inhabited by a Hispanic woman named Denise. Andrea and Margot interview his roommates, who confirm his work and college education claims are lies. In an attempt to get even, Margot gets Dennis drunk and he passes out. Margot and Andrea accidentally injure him, and Andrea confronts him for his lying. Dennis later takes her to court for kidnapping him. After confronting him again, she is given a restraining order and more fodder for her stand-up routine.