Sarasota, Florida, 1974: Reporter Christine Chubbuck is frequently at odds with her boss, Michael, who wants her to focus less on human-interest pieces and more on crime, which brings in news ratings. She also nurses a crush on her co-worker George Peter Ryan. After experiencing pains in her stomach, Christine's doctor tells her she needs to have an ovary removed, which will result in a decrease in the likelihood of her having children. At work, she learns the station's owner intends to promote some of the Sarasota team with a move to Baltimore.  Eager to earn the promotion, Christine buys a police scanner and begins listening to it, hoping to find grittier stories. Though her co-workers praise her stories, Michael tells her they are not what the station is looking for. Christine tries to do a piece combining documentary and recreation but is shot down by Michael, who also informs Christine that her segment will be replaced. Christine leaves the studio after screaming at Michael in front of the whole station, and him telling her to go home. After taking the weekend off, Christine comes back to work, telling George to ask to take her out so that they can have a conversation. At the restaurant, the pair confide personal secrets.  After dinner, George tells Christine he wants to help her and brings her to a Transactional Analysis self-help group. The group performs an exercise called "Yes, But", in which one person describes their problems and the other person offers solutions. During the course of the game, Christine reveals to her partner that she is a virgin but desperately wants a husband and a biological child. George drops Christine off at home and tells her he is being promoted to the Baltimore team. Alone, Christine drives to the home of Bob Anderson, the owner of the station, where she pretends she has a flat tire. They discuss the Baltimore promotions; Anderson reveals George asked for Andrea, the sports anchor, to be transferred with him, which devastates Christine.  At work, Michael gives Christine permission to do another segment. Christine reads out several minutes of local news. When footage of a crime scene jams and she's asked to stall, she shrugs it off, announces that the station will be airing a live suicide attempt, pulls out a revolver, and shoots herself in the head. Christine falls onto the floor, causing her disbelieving co-workers to realize it is not a prank. She is taken to the hospital, where she eventually succumbs to her injuries. Her mother and colleagues are devastated.  One of them, Jean, puts together Christine's news clippings into a memorial film before returning home, pulling an ice cream from the refrigerator, turning on the television, and singing The Mary Tyler Moore Show theme song, something she earlier told Christine she did as a way of coping with sadness.