Sheila is a recently divorced bank teller. She is frequently chastised for insignificant work errors by her bosses and intimidated by her teenage son Vince's girlfriend Gwen. After finding out about her ex-husband's new girlfriend and secretly seeing Vince performing oral sex on Gwen, she visits the department store Dentley and Soper's during their sales to buy a dress for a date. Assisted by enigmatic store clerk Miss Luckmoore, Sheila is drawn to a beautiful, flowing red dress, which Luckmoore convinces her to purchase. Sheila notices a strange rash on her chest after wearing the dress. Her washing machine later breaks down when trying to wash it, resulting in Sheila injuring her hand. At night, the store clerks are shown cleaning a lifelike mannequin, which appears to menstruate, as the elderly proprietor Mr Lundy observes and masturbates.  When returning to shop at the store, Sheila learns that the dress is the only one of its kind, and that the store model who wore it for the catalogue was later killed. Sheila goes on a date with her new suitor Zach while Gwen and Vince have sex. As Gwen climaxes, the dress floats above her and tries to suffocate her. When Sheila and Zach go for a walk together, she is attacked by a German Shepherd, which injures her leg and rips the dress. Later that day, Vince returns home with the dress, which is mysteriously unharmed. After hearing the dress move about in the wardrobe at night, an unsettled Sheila attempts to return the dress to the store but is refused. She recounts a dream to her bosses at work about seeing her mother reflected in the mirror. With the dress in her car boot, Sheila is killed in an accident en route to spending the night with Zach.  The dress comes into the possession of washing machine repairman Reg Speaks, who is made by his friends to wear it on his stag night. He has a difficult social life, and possesses the uncanny ability to put people into a trance when he explains the mechanics of a washing machine; he also struggles to have sex with his fiancée Babs. He is disturbed by a strange dream of being shut out of the delivery room as Babs gives birth to a baby who emerges from the womb wearing the dress. Babs takes a liking to the dress and wears it to shop at Dentley and Soper's. Luckmoore rebukes Babs for shopping near closing time, but is convinced by Lundy to let her stay. Meanwhile, Reg is hypnotized by the department store's TV advertisement and dies from carbon monoxide poisoning caused by his boiler. Babs recounts a disturbing dream to Luckmoore in which she becomes the model for the store catalogue but gets thinner and thinner until she ends up being buried in the store. Babs goes into the fitting room while a fight between patrons breaks out in the store and quickly spirals into looting.  The dress falls onto a heater and catches fire, and the flames spread quickly through the store. Babs burns to death in the changing room, while Luckmoore flees into the dumbwaiter with a dismembered mannequin. As she descends deeper into the store, she looks on in ecstacy as she passes the dead store model, Sheila, Reg, and Babs stitching together the dress from threads made of their blood, along with several unattended sewing stations implied to be for future wearers of the dress. A fireman observes the destroyed store and discovers the dress undamaged amongst the rubble.