In the summer of 1994 in New York City, Luke Shapiro is trading marijuana in exchange for therapy from his psychiatrist, Dr. Jeffery Squires. He graduates from high school but while dealing at a party, he finds out that Justin and most of his class have left for the summer, except for him and his classmate and Squires' stepdaughter, Stephanie "Steph" Squires. When Luke returns home, he finds his parents arguing over money and their probable eviction from their Manhattan apartment.  Luke starts dealing more marijuana to make money for his family. After a session with Squires, he bumps into Steph and invites her to come with him dealing around the city. She has a great time and gives Luke her number so she will not be lonely in the city for the summer.   Luke calls Steph but ends up talking to Squires and they go out to a bar. While getting drunk and high, they get kicked out for underage drinking. Walking back from the bar, Luke and Squires start tagging a wall but are caught by the police.   Steph bails them out of jail and, against Squires' wishes, takes Luke out for the day. They end up kissing. When Luke gets home, he finds he has strong feelings for her.  After Luke learns that his family is getting evicted, Steph invites him to her family's house on Fire Island while Squires and his wife go on a second honeymoon to repair their marriage. On the island, Steph finds out Luke is a virgin and gives him sex lessons.   After taking a shower and having sex together, Luke tells Steph that he loves her. She reacts with astonishment, though Luke fails to realize that she is not interested in a committed relationship. Justin later contacts Steph asking if she wants to hang out.  Luke asks Squires for help selling pot in order to make enough money for college. He introduces Squires to his client, Eleanor, and they hit it off. As Luke's family is evicted and moves in with his grandparents in New Jersey, Luke visits Steph for companionship, only to find her on a date with Justin.   A heartbroken Luke goes to Fire Island to seek counselling with Squires, who is on a bender because his wife left him. While high, he tries to commit suicide by drowning in the sea, but Luke stops him.  Luke later talks with Squires inside the Squires' home and Squires wishes him good luck. As he is leaving, Steph follows him to the elevator to talk to him. However, Luke asks her to not, so he can fully experience heartbreak and he leaves, leaving a regretful Steph behind. As he walks out of the complex, he puts in the mixtape Squires made for him and "All the Young Dudes" by Mott the Hoople begins playing.  In New Jersey, Luke tells his family he plans to become a psychiatrist, wanting to help other people with their problems. Back in the city, Eleanor beeps Squires and they make plans to hook up that night. The film cuts to Luke, who is smoking a joint while waiting at a train stop.