Setsuko Kawashima is a lonely, chain-smoking office worker in Tokyo who is unmarried. When her niece Mika contacts her, Setsuko goes to see her despite warnings from her sister Ayako, not to get involved. Mika tells Setsuko that she signed up for a year of English classes but can no longer afford to go as she needs to save up money and keep working. Mika asks Setsuko to buy her out and sends her to the school for a free first class.  At the school Setsuko meets John, an American teacher who hugs her warmly, gives her the American name of Lucy and a bright blonde wig so she can adopt an American persona. She meets Takeshi Komori, a classmate in the English class who goes by the name Tom. Setsuko is quickly charmed by John and decides to keep attending classes. At their next session she learns that John has abruptly quit to go back to America. Leaving the school she sees John and Mika kissing and getting into a cab. Her sister informs her that Mika moved to America.  Setsuko tries to return to English class, but finds she can't continue. Instead, when she receives a postcard from Mika with her address, Setsuko decides to follow her. Ayako decides to join her. It is revealed that Lucy holds resentment towards Ayako for marrying her boyfriend.  Arriving in L.A. the two are surprised when they arrive and find only John at home, who claims that Mika left him and he has no idea where she is. After raiding his room, however, Ayako discovers a postcard from Mika sent from San Diego. The sisters hire a car and have John drive them to the motel where Mika was last heard from.  While waiting for Mika to reappear, John offers to teach Setsuko how to drive and the two end up having sex. Afterwards Setsuko goes to a tattoo parlour to get the same tattoo as John but when she shows it to him he rebuffs her.  The following morning Ayako confronts John and tells him to take her to Mika. He goes to his house where he introduces Ayako to his wife and daughter who know where Mika is but will not tell him.  Setsuko, left alone at the motel, ends up running into Mika who tells her that she broke up with John after discovering his family. They have a picnic near the beach where Mika teases Setsuko about having a crush on John, and Setsuko, in retaliation, reveals that she slept with John. Mika jumps off a cliff, trying to commit suicide, but lives.  At the hospital, John asks Setsuko if she told Mika about them. She tells John she loves him but he rejects her completely. Ayako tells her to stay out of their lives.  Setsuko returns to Tokyo where she learns she is essentially being fired. At home she tries to commit suicide by ingesting pills following feeling having lost John, her job, and her family. She is found by Takeshi Komori, who makes her vomit the pills. Takeshi reveals that his son killed himself and that he blames himself for being too strict which is why he enjoys slipping in to his Tom persona. He and Setsuko hug, signifying Setsuko starting over her life anew in finding hope.