High-powered consultant Lucy Hill, who loves her upscale Miami lifestyle, is sent to New Ulm, Minnesota, to oversee the restructuring of a food manufacturing plant. The factory is meant to add Japanese automation, and reduce staff by at least 50 percent.  After leaving sunny Miami and arriving in cold Minnesota, she finds a frosty reception from the weather, the locals, icy roads and a culture she has difficulty dealing with. As an example, before her first day at the factory she proceeds to insult a Ted Mitchell, the guest of honor at a home-cooked meal organized by the plant's secretary. The next day, Ted turns out to be the head of the workers' union. Likewise, she antagonizes the waitress in the local hangout, Flo; Flo turns out to be the ex-wife of the plant's foreman who she will fire. She learns to appreciate the locals and their way of life, and vice versa. In one of various scenes, Ted in his pickup truck rescues Lucy from freezing when she gets stuck in the snow as she tries to evade a cow wandering on the road; later Lucy's knowledge about fashion and style helps Ted's 13 year old daughter to get ready for her first dance. Eventually, Lucy kisses Ted as they acknowledge their mutual attraction.   When Lucy is ordered to close down the plant, which will put the entire community out of work, she's forced to reconsider her goals and priorities, and find a way to save the town. After getting another one big bowl of tapioca pudding, prepared according to her secretary's secret recipe of tapioca pudding, she gets the bright idea to have the company make and market the product, with their former yogurt production line and the existing personnel.  When the tapioca becomes extremely successful, Lucy's company wants to shut down the small Minnesota plant, which can not produce enough for the national market they envision. However, instead Lucy puts together a group of financiers who purchase the plant, with a construction that will gradually transfer ownership to the employees. As part of the deal Lucy becomes the CEO. Lucy announces the purchase to the employees gathered on the plant floor, including a now clean-shaven Ted who pledges the cooperation of the Union. Lucy and Ted seal the deal with a kiss, applauded by everyone.