At the 2002 World Winter Sport Games, raunchy sex addict Chazz Michael Michaels and sheltered, effeminate Jimmy MacElroy tie for the male single skating gold. Standing together on the podium, the two start an argument which escalates into a fight. They are stripped of their medals and banned for life from competitive skating.  Three and a half years later, both have grudgingly taken on alternative occupations. Chazz performs in a children's ice show, badly, as he's always drunk. Jimmy works at a sporting goods store. His stalker, Hector, tells him of a loophole: he's only banned from competing in men's singles skating, he can still compete in pairs.  Jimmy contacts Coach Goddard in hope of entering the upcoming World Winter Sport Games. Looking for a pairs partner at the local ice arena, he runs into the just-fired Chazz. They fight and are arrested. Watching the news video of their fight, Coach Goddard gets an idea. He visits them in jail to convince them to skate as the first-ever male-male pairs team.  Coach Goddard puts them up in his cabin and arranges a secret rink for practice, telling them they must learn to get along to skate together. Jimmy and Chazz perform well at the Winter Sports Games qualifiers, worrying brother and sister competitors Stranz and Fairchild Van Waldenberg. The Van Waldenbergs guilt their sister Katie into secretly filming Jimmy and Chazz practicing. Jimmy and Katie are attracted and Chazz coaches Jimmy on how to ask her out. After they go on a date Katie's siblings threaten to harm Jimmy unless Katie seduces Chazz to make Jimmy jealous.  Coach Goddard tells Jimmy and Chazz they must perform the complicated and dangerous "Iron Lotus" maneuver to wow the judges. The only other attempt resulted in the man decapitating the woman, Goddard is convinced it only failed because it should have been two men performing it.  Katie pretends to be a member of Chazz's sex addicts meeting, then invites Chazz to her room and tries to seduce him. Chazz refuses out of respect for Jimmy, which delights her. But Chazz can't resist grabbing her breasts. Jimmy arrives and witnesses this, and is outraged at their betrayals and runs off despite Chazz's attempts to apologize.  Stranz and Fairchild kidnap Chazz and Jimmy to sabotage their performance. Chazz escapes and skates on the waterways all the way to the arena, with Stranz in hot pursuit.  While Fairchild is restraining Jimmy, she reveals that she and her brother demanded that Katie have sex with Chazz to make him jealous, and that Chazz wouldn't go through with it out of respect for him. Jimmy, overjoyed, escapes as well.  Chazz and Jimmy arrive at the ice rink just in time to compete. Fairchild breaks her necklace and throws a pearl onto the ice. Chazz skates over it and breaks his ankle, rendering him unable to perform his role in the Iron Lotus. Jimmy and Chazz switch places. Although they have never practiced each other's roles, they perform it perfectly, and win the competition.  Jimmy reconciles with Katie. Stranz and Fairchild are arrested. They argue before kissing each other incestuously. Jimmy and Chazz are awarded the gold medal and fly off into the sky via rockets on their skates.