On the eve of her wedding, Eden, overcome with anxiety at the prospect of married life, drinks a full bottle of scotch in order to numb the suppressed feelings she has been struggling to remain unconscious of. These uncertain feelings had previously been indicated by the need Eden felt in the days leading up to the wedding to record daily supportive messages for herself, affirming that she is doing the right thing in getting married.  The morning after drinking the scotch Eden awakes in the desert, raped, covered in cuts and bruises and having no recollection of the night before. Seeking help, Eden finds it difficult to communicate as her jaw is broken. She encounters some strangers and is mistaken for a homeless person and a meth addict. Following a seizure caused by a head injury, she is taken to the hospital by a reluctant sheriff.  In the meantime Christopher, Eden's fiancee, tries to contact her despite having been told by Eden to not contact her while she is preparing on the morning of the wedding. He becomes frantic.  At the hospital Eden undergoes an operation to repair her broken jaw; however, when it is discovered that there is a problem with  medical insurance, she is offered no further help and is dropped off in Skid Row still dressed in a revealing hospital gown. She wanders around until she is helped by a kind biker named Sam who takes her to a local shelter, run by a religious pastor. Eventually walking off again, Eden finds a scooter and wanders the streets, making various dangerous encounters, until she decides it's time to return home.  Having picked up her wedding dress from the store, Eden goes to her apartment, still unsure about marriage. In trying to convince herself that she loves him enough to marry him, she begins to masturbate while fantasizing about Christopher, which ultimately she finds upsetting. Christopher, still distraught from not being able to contact Eden, finally receives a reply from her. The wedding is to go ahead on the beach as planned. But when Eden arrives at the beach, she looks at Christopher and the guests from a distance, then decides not to go through with wedding and again wanders off.  Eden, still in her wedding dress, goes to a tattoo parlor. She is shown having the right side of her face tattooed with an image of a cross which reads "RIP Christopher".