The film opens with John F. Kennedy's "We choose to go to the Moon" speech.  In 1967, ambitious CIA agents Matt Johnson, Owen Williams, Andy Apelle, and Jared Raab convince their superiors to let them infiltrate NASA disguised as a documentary crew filming the Apollo 11 mission in an effort to root out a Soviet mole inside the organization.  After bugging administrator James Webb's phone, the crew discovers the lander built for the Moon landing is incapable of landing on the Moon, and NASA plans to keep it a secret. When they tell their superior, Brackett, they are told to leave NASA, which they disregard.  To cover up the inability of the lander and prevent the Russians from winning the Space Race, the crew starts "Operation Avalanche"—faking parts of the Moon landing, gaining the approval of Brackett. He sends agent Josh Boles to keep an eye on them.  Reviewing the footage of a NASA pool party, Jared notices two men filming them. Hearing of Stanley Kubrick filming 2001: A Space Odyssey, the crew travels to England, where they film the set with a hidden camera in hopes of copying his tactics. They learn about front screen projection, which they then use to make their faked Moon landing videos more convincing. They prepare a plan to fake the radio signals NASA receives from the lander, read out a pre-written script and broadcast the fake landing. Matt becomes frantic when he learns that, if his plan fails, the CIA plans to shoot down the real Apollo 11 lander and blame the Soviets. Matt begins burying finished footage in a field.  During a shoot, Owen notices a pair of men watching them. When the crew approaches them, they drive away. Boles informs them that they have caught the mole, but he does not seem to be involved with the men watching them. When Owen examines interview footage with the mole, he realizes he was the other man on the phone with Webb, leading him to believe the mole, Boles, and the men watching them are all part of the CIA. After the "mole" dies, Owen believes the CIA is planning to finish them off to tie up loose ends.  After finishing Avalanche, Matt gives a copy to Boles and cuts up a copy with footage proving the fake. The faked launch goes off without a hitch, and Matt burns the props used in the videos. Finding the motel room they were using trashed and men sweeping the premises, Matt, Jared, and Andrew dig up Matt's copy of the film. As they leave with it, they are attacked by a car that shoots at them, narrowly escaping.  Matt finds Owen hanged in his garage. He gives the film canisters to Andrew and sends him to go hide them. He calls Brackett on a payphone and offers to trade his location for the names of the agents the CIA plans to eliminate. He threatens to release his uncut copy, and Brackett offers to make him head of his own department, but Matt declines. As a forlorn Matt watches the "Moon landing" play on local television and looks into the camera at the last second, Creedence Clearwater Revival's "Fortunate Son" plays over America celebrating the Apollo 11 landing.