The film opens in media res with a video message from Alissa Vincent, saying the Ishimura is lost and both the ship and the Marker that caused its fall must be destroyed, before turning back to when the Ishimura first arrived above Aegis VII to discover that the mining colony has undergone a catastrophic breakdown, with dozens killed and numerous reports of violent behavior and psychosis. The Ishimura'''s captain, Benjamin Mathius, honors the wish of his chief science officer, Dr. Terrence Kyne, to have the Marker transferred to the ship for study. The Unitologists serving on Ishimura worship the new artifact, including Senior Engineer Samuel Irons. On the other hand, Vincent, the ship's security chief, grows increasingly furious about having the Marker on board as she believes it to be responsible for the colony's collapse. Even so, Mathius reassures his crew the Marker will be brought to Earth so the Earth Government can create a cure for the Marker's effects.  Shortly after Ishimura initiates the planetcrack, all contact is lost with the colony, which is completely overrun by Necromorphs. Jennifer commits suicide out of guilt and insanity, and when her husband Colin attempts to board Ishimura with her corpse, she suddenly turns into a Necromorph, kills him, and escapes into the depths of the ship. Kyne sees her and becomes concerned about the Marker's presence. Vincent and her team - Ramirez, Hanson, Shen, Pendleton and Dobbs - investigate a disturbance, finding growing numbers of Necromorphs killing the crew one by one and overtaking the ship. Both Dobbs and Pendleton are killed, and Hanson is only saved by Irons' intervention. Meanwhile, Kyne discovers that Mathius intends to bring the Marker to the Church back on Earth so they can present it to the public, a reason the captain not only disabled all communications to the Aegis VII colony, but all communications to Earth as well, to cover up the whole incident on the planet as a terrorist attack for the Earth Government. Finally fed up being a pawn to this entire mission, Kyne exposes Mathius as a Unitologist and uses his mission as a pretense to relieve him of command under maritime law, but Mathius physically refuses to step down. Mathius is accidentally stabbed dead in the eye with a syringe after a botched attempt to sedate him; branded as a traitor to the Church of Unitology for murdering a high-ranking Unitologist, Kyne then flees as all escape pods and shuttles are launched empty, trapping everyone on board.  En route to the bridge, Hanson kills Shen and attacks Vincent before Ramirez fatally shoots him. Having lost his faith, Irons sacrifices himself to hold off the Necromorphs attracted to the disturbance. Vincent and Ramirez learn that Kyne intends to sabotage the Ishimuras engines as an act of mutiny so it will crash into Aegis VII. They are unable to stop him, Ramirez is killed, and Kyne reveals that the Marker's influences and infection is in all of them before going into hiding. With the Ishimura stable but in a decaying orbit, Vincent finds the Marker, which the Necromorphs cannot approach as it kept them sealed on Aegis VII. Exhausted and emotionally broken, Vincent is visited by the ghost of Ramirez who urges her to "save the ship"; she records the video message before attempting to escape on the only remaining shuttle. Trapped by Necromorphs, she commits suicide by ejecting herself and them into the vacuum of space, using her last breath to activate the shuttle's distress beacon. The film ends with the USG Kellion responding to the distress call.   Voice actors   Character  Voice actor Alissa Vincent  Nika Futterman Dr Kyne  Keith Szarabajka Samuel Irons  Kevin Michael Richardson Ramirez  Hal Sparks Hansen  Phil Morris Shen  Kelly Hu Pendleton  Kevin Michael Richardson Dobbs  Jeff Bennett Captain Matthius  Jim Cummings Jennifer Barrows  Lia Sargent Colin Barrows  Bruce Boxleitner   Production  The survival horror video game Dead Space began production in 2006 at EA Redwood Shores, based on creator Glen Schofield's wish to create the most frightening horror game possible. Alongside the game, the universe of Dead Space was expanded into a multimedia narrative described by its publisher Electronic Arts as "IP cubed"; it extended across the game, the limited comic series Dead Space, and the animated film Downfall. The concept for a film was around from the beginning of the game's production. While each part of the media expansion was handled by different people, the game's development team acted as overall controller, ensuring continuity between each property.  The film was produced by Film Roman, the animation unit of Starz Media known for their work on The Simpsons and King of the Hill. Downfall was directed by Chuck Patton, known for his work on Todd McFarlane's Spawn. From the outset, Patton wanted Downfall to be the goriest animated feature the studio had done up to this point. Producer Joe Goyette described this element as "creating another 400 ways to kill people". The team opted for traditional 2D animation both for time and budgetary reasons, and to craft more sympathetic characters. Due to the simultaneous production of the game and movie, there was a lot of collaboration between the two teams. The "Downfall" subtitle was a reference to the film's content. While the different media projects shared a dark and grim aesthetic, Electronic Arts did not try to keep the art design consistent between them.  While the mythology and broad strokes of plot were in place, the plot details of Downfall were left up to Film Roman as long as they did not deviate from the established lore and timeline. So the film would be accurate to the game, the production team were given 3D assets from the game by Electronic Arts, along with reference material for the atmosphere and Necromorph transformations. The team got further reference material for themselves to portray the injuries and transformations. The film was co-written by Justin Gray and Jimmy Palmiotti in collaboration with the animation team. For Gray and Palmiotti, the film gave them a chance to let loose with the level of violence and vent their frustration at being told to hold back in their earlier work. While the events of the comic and the game were set, and one character had to survive the film, the writers were otherwise allowed to "write madness". According to the writers and director, the amount of content cut during production would have made a sequel. A notable cut section, which was seen as overly ambitious and requiring too much time, was a fight between Vincent and a unique Necromorph born from the fused bodies of her squad mates.Downfall was first announced in March 2008. It premiered in the United Kingdom at the 2008 Sci-Fi-London film festival. The movie was released direct-to-video on DVD and Blu-ray on October 28, roughly a week after the release of Dead Space. The extras included an isolated soundtrack, a deleted scene, and cheat codes for the game. The Blu-ray edition also included a standard DVD edition and digital editions compatible with PlayStation Portable and Microsoft Windows. It was co-published by Anchor Bay Entertainment and Manga Entertainment. It later premiered on television through Starz Encore on November 2. Electronic Arts and Starz Media would collaborate again on Dead Space: Aftermath, released in 2011 as a prequel to Dead Space 2.   Critical reception  Upon its debut in the United States, the DVD release reached twenty-third place in sales charts, reaching over 26,500 units and earning over $397,000. Ultimately, Downfall earned over $1,655,000 in DVD sales.  Christopher Monfette of IGN enjoyed the animation and staging of its scares and violence despite a limited color palette, but found the narrative was poorly paced with too many events happening in quick succession. He also faulted the dialogue and performances, and the Unitology subplot as unnecessary filler. Joystiqs Andrew Yoon felt that the movie was only for fans of the game, as its storyline was best understood by those who had already played Dead Space. Alongside this, Yoon faulted the characters, lack of reference to in-game events, and overfast pacing; ultimately, he felt it was better than bigger-budget Hollywood game adaptations. James Stephanie Sterling writing for Destructoid, said that the movie was enjoyable but relied too much on character cliches. She positively compared its tone and violence to "a cartoony Event Horizon", and praised the animation quality despite it clashing with the parent game's realistic graphics.  Peter Debruge of Variety noted its technical achievements given its scale and market, but noted that its tone and apparent revelry in the deaths of its cast made it unenjoyable outside the original game's context. DVDTalks Adam Tyner felt that Downfall would have been better if it had focused on horror and suspence over violence and gore. He summarised that the film "captures the unflinchingly graphic violence of EA's survival horror video game, but it misses out on the suspense and intensity that leave it standing out as one of the year's best". Michael Thompson of Ars Technica again noted it as better than many larger-budget video game adaptations, citing Max Payne as an example of the latter. His biggest complaint was a lack of horror elements, with the focus on bloody violence undercuting any suspense. Play, as part of an article on Dead Space 3, called Downfall'' "Gory, quite silly, but good for fans and entertaining."