Act 1: Genesis In early January 2000, a boy named Cullen Active walks into his school in the Staten Island neighborhood of New Brighton, goes to an 8th grade class and shoots the teacher, Mrs. Dwyer. One student, 13-year-old Celeste Montgomery, calmly and compassionately talks to Cullen, and offers to pray with him. However, he shoots all the students and kills himself; Celeste is later seen to be in one of only three ambulances carrying survivors from the scene.  As she slowly recovers from her injuries, Celeste and her older sister, Eleanor, write music together. Soon after, at an event led by Father Cliff in memory of the shooting victims, Celeste sings a song that she and Eleanor wrote called "Wrapped Up". The song becomes an instant hit and Celeste is soon picked up by a manager.  By April 2000, Celeste is recording an EP in New York City. Over the next 20 months, Celeste manages and navigates the increasing pressures of her newfound fame in spite of her past trauma. She and Eleanor indulge in bouts of partying that soon get in the way of Celeste's work, including the 14-year-old Celeste being subject to statutory rape by an older musician and Eleanor having sex with Celeste's manager the night before the September 11 attacks. However, we see that Celeste continues to successfully rise in the music industry, with her songs getting quickly picked up by the radio and rushing the demand for her first music video, "Hologram (Smoke and Mirrors)”.  Act 2: Regenesis In 2017, a terrorist shooting on a beach in Croatia is rumored to be linked to Celeste's music due to the masks that the criminals donned, which are similar to the masks from Celeste's 2001 "Hologram" video.  Celeste is now 31 years old and preparing for the first night of a concert tour for her sixth album, Vox Lux. Her manager informs her of the terrorist shooting, and then tells her to prepare for the ensuing press junkets. Before her first interview, Celeste takes her teenage daughter, Albertine (conceived from the encounter with the musician), to lunch. Once there, Celeste unveils her erratic and destructive behavior, aided by alcohol, resulting in Celeste and Albertine getting kicked out of the restaurant by the manager. It is revealed that, six years prior, Celeste permanently blinded herself in her left eye due to consuming excessive amounts of methanol while binge-drinking household cleaning products. Celeste then drove under the influence across three state lines, injuring a man in his left leg and pelvis in the process, which resulted in a public lawsuit.  After lunch, Celeste has a heated argument with Eleanor after finding out Albertine has recently lost her virginity; Eleanor has been Albertine's guardian since her birth. The press interviews begin soon after, with Celeste becoming increasingly unhinged after one interviewer mentions the aforementioned driving incident. Her publicist decides to cancel the rest of the interviews scheduled that day and asks Celeste to rest before the concert. However, Celeste and her manager get high on drugs and have sex. That evening, an impaired Celeste heads for the concert venue with her entourage in tow. She then experiences a mental breakdown, with Eleanor successfully comforting her before sending her out.  Finale Celeste appears ready for the concert and preps for the stage with her band and background dancers. She then performs multiple songs with elaborate dance numbers involved. It is revealed that after she was shot, Celeste told Eleanor that she made a deal with the devil for her life. The movie ends with her manager, Albertine, and Eleanor pensively looking on at the façade of a performing Celeste.