Troubled teenager Lincoln Taggert is sent to Mind’s Eye Academy reform camp after stabbing a bully in the face with a fork. Former students Krauss and Christine assist head guru Jack Iverson with teaching at the New Age disciplinary camp. Isaac is assigned as Lincoln’s roommate and the two boys become friends. Kaitlin takes a romantic interest in Lincoln.  Following a fight with camp bully Willie, Lincoln wishes his tormenters were dead. He hears a girl’s voice as blood begins dripping from the ceiling. Willie is attacked by a ghostly girl. Kaitlin finds Willie dead from apparent self-inflicted wounds, along with the word “bully” carved into his arm. Lincoln begins seeing visions of the ghost and learns that her name is Moira.  Moira attacks Willie’s sidekick Derek. Isaac’s research reveals that the girl is Moira Karp, a bullied teenager who supposedly killed herself while attending Mind’s Eye Academy. Lincoln pleads with Moira to stop, but Moira counters that she is only doing what Lincoln wanted. Moira is able to harm others by harming herself; when she slits her own throat, Derek dies from the wound.  Lincoln is upset when Kaitlin confesses that she used to be a bully who regrettably drove a classmate to suicide. Moira tells Lincoln that his anger brought her back and together their vengeance can be unstoppable. When Lincoln tells Moira that he doesn’t need her anymore, Moira’s skin bubbles with blood and she doubles over in pain. She flees screaming.  Moira cuts herself so that Kaitlin can experience the pain. The sheriff is supernaturally killed. Moira confronts Iverson, who says that Moira gave them no choice before hitting her over the head. However, the wound appears on Iverson’s head instead and he collapses. Moira breaks her teeth on a rock to further torture Iverson.  Krauss tries leaving, but discovers that Kaitlin slashed his tires. Moira kills Krauss, then bashes her head to kill Isaac. Christine confronts Lincoln at gunpoint over presumably murdering Willie and restrains him to a faucet. Kaitlin finds Moira cutting fellow student Samantha. She protests Samantha’s innocence in the bullying, but Moira continues torturing the girl. Kaitlin angrily insists that she no longer needs Moira.  Moira confronts Christine about lying to her parents regarding how she actually died. It is revealed that Christine actually killed her. Krauss and Iverson were witnesses who aided with the suicide cover-up. Christine shoots Moira but ends up blowing off her own head. Kaitlin professes her love to Lincoln and frees him. Together they confront Moira. When Moira begins gaining the upper hand against Kaitlin, Lincoln sets himself on fire to kill Moira. Kaitlin puts out the flames on Lincoln’s dead body and angrily uses the fire extinguisher to bash in Moira’s head.  In a mid-credits scene, a young girl in a high school bathroom wishes for her tormenters be dead, inadvertently summoning Moira.