In May 1986, cop Ron Hartley (Jasen Wade) of Cokeville, Wyoming, begins to question his religious beliefs, wondering whether a just God would really allow the atrocities he witnesses in his work to happen. He stops praying and attending church services with his family, which worries his wife, Claudia (Sarah Kent) and his children, Cindy (Alexa Rae) and Jason (Kimball Stinger).  In Tucson, Arizona, David Young (Nathan Stevens), former town marshal of Cokeville, tests a homemade bomb on an old bus, completely destroying it. He then expresses his triumph with his second wife, Doris (Kymberly Mellen). The two and Young's daughter from his first marriage, Penny (Caitlin EJ Meyer), journey to Cokeville, where Young collects supplies to build another bomb and recruits his friends Gerald Deppe and Doyle Mendenhall (Channon Voyce and Paul Hunt) to help him with the next stage of his plan.  The next day, Ron is called out of town. Meanwhile, Young's group travels to the elementary school and David announces his plan to take the school hostage and blow it up in the deluded belief that he's mathematically calculated how to die and come back to life in a "brave new world" he will control. Deppe and Mendenhall, who had assumed after an earlier demonstration that they would be setting off illegal fireworks, are horrified and refuse to participate. Young handcuffs them and leaves them in his van. Young arms the bomb and he, Doris, and Penny enter the school. When Young starts yelling at a student, Penny confronts him and refuses to help any further. She takes Young's van and drives to the town hall, where she, Deppe, and Medenhall alert the authorities.  At the school, Young takes control of Room 4. Doris then lures the rest of the school into the room by promising a "surprise". Once all 136 students, including Cindy and Jason, and 18 teachers are inside, Young explains that the bomb is wired to a dead man's switch tied to his wrist, which will detonate the bomb if anything happens to him, and threatens to shoot anyone who tries to leave. He then orders Max Excell (Alan Peterson), the school principal, to call the authorities and deliver his ransom demand: $2,000,000 for each child.  As news about the hostage situation spreads, worried parents and emergency responders gather outside the school. Ron learns about the situation and begins speeding back to Cokeville, aware that every other police officer is also out of town and he is closest. He again questions God's existence, wondering why something like this would be allowed to happen.  Inside the school, gas begins to leak from the bomb, making the children sick from the fumes. The teachers convince Young to let them open the doors and windows for ventilation. They do their best to keep the children quiet and avoid provoking Young, who grows increasingly agitated and unstable, including making a "magic square" of masking tape on the floor to keep the children away from Young and the bomb.  Eventually, Young goes to the bathroom, transferring the dead man's switch to Doris before he leaves. Doris accidentally pulls the switch with a hand gesture, triggering the bomb. The room is set on fire and fills with smoke and shrapnel as shells from Young's guns explode in the heat. The teachers quickly begin evacuating the children through the open doors and windows. Young returns from the bathroom, sees Doris on fire, and shoots her. He also shoots John Miller (Joshua Cooper), a teacher, in the back before retreating to the bathroom and shooting himself. Young and Doris are the only two fatalities of the bombing; everyone else successfully evacuates.  A few days later, Jason and Cindy are recovering well from burns and other minor injuries, but their parents worry that Jason is traumatized and take him to a psychologist. After the visit, Jason confides to Ron and Claudia that there were other people in the room with them, dressed in white — angels. He identifies one of them as his deceased great-grandmother after being shown a photograph of her and claims she told him the bomb would go off but that everything would be alright.  Ron is doubtful of Jason's story, so Claudia encourages him to look for other evidence. Ron visits other families and learns that their children likewise saw deceased relatives in the room with them shortly before the explosion. He also consults with the school principal and the investigating bomb expert (Rick Macy), who explain a number of unlikely coincidences that contributed to everyone making it out safely. Some of the events defy logical explanation, such as wires on the bomb inexplicably being cut before it exploded, no one being hit by flying shrapnel, and the school fire alarms going off with no apparent cause in the days leading up to the bombing. Ron also learns that even though the bomb was designed to explode outward, the force of the blast was largely directed up into the ceiling, which aligns with Jason describing a ring of angels surrounding the bomb and flying upward as it went off.  Even after hearing all this, Ron remains skeptical. The following Sunday, Jason persuades Ron to attend church by refusing to attend unless Ron comes as well. Ron enters the church building, but can't bring himself to attend the meetings, admitting to Claudia that he hates the Youngs for what they did and is glad they're dead. Claudia warns him that he'll lose her and their kids if he lets doubt and anger control his life. Ron then overhears part of a lesson given by their bishop, reminding the congregation that hatred will not help anyone, as well as the children, many of whom were present during the bombing, singing in the youth room. Ron is overcome with emotion and asks God and his family to forgive him for doubting. He resumes praying and attending church.