Harley Williams is a huge fan of The Banana Splits, a successful children's television series that features four animatronic characters—Fleegle, Bingo, Drooper, and Snorky—with their human co-star Stevie. As a surprise birthday present, his parents Beth and Mitch take him with his half-brother Austin and his classmate Zoe to live-on-tape of the series at Taft Studios. Upon arrival, the family meet several audience and staff members, including the show's hostess Paige and her assistant Doug, fan couple Thadd and Poppy Glarady, aspiring young performer Parker and her father Jonathan, and security guard Sal.  As the tape is getting ready, Taft's new vice president of programming Andy Viktorson informs the show's producer Rebecca Rayson that he is cancelling the series after the recording as it does not go with his network's vision. When Drooper overhears this through a drunken Stevie, the Banana Splits' new software updates malfunction as Bingo kidnaps Andy while Drooper kills Stevie by thrusting a prop lollipop down his throat. Outside the studio, Beth learns that Mitch has been cheating on her with another woman. When she returns inside, Mitch finds Sal's decapitated corpse and is then chased and run over by Snorky.  While live streaming the backstage, Poppy accepts Thadd's marriage proposal but Fleegle appears and kills Thadd by sawing him in half as part of a magic show. Fleegle leaves Poppy when he hears Harley and Zoe looking for Snorky and takes them to the workshop. He traps them with Parker, who was kidnapped by Bingo when Drooper burnt Jonathan's face as they were searching Andy for an audition. The remaining survivors learn about the Banana Splits' carnage after they find a seriously injured Jonathan. Paige finds all phones disconnected or destroyed while Beth manages to subdue Bingo before she and Austin find Poppy and convince her to join the group.  Meanwhile, Rebecca and Jonathan are forced to participate in the show's obstacle course until Fleegle stabs Jonathan to death with a key and Drooper fatally smashes Rebecca's head with a hammer. Harley, Zoe, and Parker meet the Banana Splits' creator Karl Ludwigson, who considers the animatronics' actions justified by the show's cancellation. Drooper brings Bingo for repair and Karl gets distracted enough for the kids to escape and lock him in a cell. As they look for a way out, the kids come across Snorky and convince him to help them. Beth, Austin, Paige, and Poppy arrive at the workshop to ask Karl how to stop the Banana Splits but he does not provide any information.  The group hear music coming from a hatch in the floor and go down but Poppy notices the mask of Hooty, an unused fifth animatronic. She loses her sanity and puts on parts of the costume before killing Karl as revenge for Thadd's death. Beth, Austin, and Paige find the underground passage littered with the corpses of Doug, the studio's staff, and the adult audience members, and discover Fleegle and Drooper are holding all children hostage while performing gruesome variants of their acts, like burning Stevie's corpse and brutally murdering Andy by ripping his limbs off. Snorky arrives and chains Harley, Zoe, and Parker, but secretly gives Harley the keys to free them.  Beth and Austin manage to kill both Fleegle and Drooper while Parker guides all the children to the exit. Beth, Austin, and Harley meet up with Paige and Zoe before they are cornered by Bingo until Snorky appears and attacks him. Snorky kills Bingo before the latter fatally injures him during the fight. As the police and paramedics arrive to attend the survivors, Austin and Paige start a relationship. Mitch, heavily injured, returns to seek forgiveness but Beth demands him a divorce. Mitch is then killed after a now-insane Poppy runs him over with a vehicle, with the Banana Splits' remains in the back. While she drives and sings The Banana Splits theme song, Fleegle reactivates and laughs maniacally.