Jason Collins is a college student, who is persuaded to allow his friend Craig to ship drugs to his house. Jason signs for the package which contains pills and a tracking device. DEA officers break into the house; Jason flees but is chased down and arrested by Agent Cooper. While at a barbecue, John Matthews, Jason's estranged father and owner of a construction company, is called by his ex-wife Sylvie about Jason being arrested. John and Sylvie meet with an investigator who says that Craig set Jason up to reduce his own sentence. Jason's charges carry a minimum of 10 years in prison. He is pressured to inform on one of his own friends to reduce his own sentence.   Using his connections, John arranges to meet with local US Attorney Joanne Keeghan, who is running an aggressive anti-drug campaign. Keeghan agrees to reduce Jason's sentence if John will inform on a drug dealer. Cooper leads a task force which will monitor any dealings John arranges to use as evidence for an arrest. John searches through his employee records and finds that Daniel James, a new employee, has two prior distribution convictions. Daniel is currently leading a clean life to avoid a third strike. John offers $20,000 if Daniel will simply introduce him to a dealer; Daniel agrees, though he is unaware that John is acting as an informant. Daniel introduces John to Malik, an extremely dangerous, high-ranking local drug dealer, who also has two strikes.   Explaining that his construction business cannot stay afloat in the current economy without a supplement to its revenues, John offers to run nearly limitless amounts of drugs at almost zero risk in his freight trucks. Malik agrees under the condition that John and Daniel drive the initial run themselves. John and Agent Cooper arrange for several wire taps, where he drives to the pick-up point near the Mexican border when a rival gang ambushes the pick-up, but John escapes, impressing cartel kingpin Pintera, whose men fight off the hijackers. John then makes the deal, delivering the drugs to Malik while under surveillance by Cooper. Malik mentions a meeting with cartel members higher than himself.   Hoping to catch the higher priority targets, Cooper does not move to arrest Malik as agreed. Keeghan claims Cooper did the right thing and reneges on her promise to reduce Jason's sentence unless John cooperates in the second meeting. Outraged, John demands that Jason be released when the job is completed. Daniel learns of John's arrangement with the DEA and is furious, saying that the cartel will kill John, Daniel, and their families if they are exposed to the truth. John and Daniel send their families into hiding, where John meets with Pintera, who wants him to run nearly $100 million in drug profits into Mexico and offers to make John as a member of the cartel's inner circle if he succeeds. Keeghan relishes the prospect of arresting such a high-profile dealer, but Cooper has a change of heart and tries to talk John out of doing the run, suspecting the cartel will kill him afterwards.   John devises a plan to free himself and Daniel from both the government and the cartel. During the run, John is able to escape Cooper's surveillance. At the same time, Daniel sneaks into Malik's house, killing his guards and mortally wounding him. Before dying, Malik reveals Pintera's cell phone number to Daniel. John calls Cooper and has him track both his new cell phone and Pintera's phone, effectively giving Cooper both the money and the kingpin at once. The cartel realizes John is an informant which leads them on a highway chase and shootout before escaping. The cartel members and the money are seized by Cooper's men. Pintera is surrounded by federal agents and surrenders because his young son is with him. John leaves a large federal reward check that he received for the capture of Pintera for Daniel.  Jason is released, while John and his family go into the witness protection program.