Colin lives with his girlfriend Zoe.  His troubled sister JR visits him asking for a favor.  JR is an aspiring news anchor and asks Colin to accompany her on a road trip to pick up her belongings from her ex-boyfriend, Neil Chadwick.  Neil is a broadcasting professor at the college JR went to. Neil and JR lived together until they broke up and JR dropped out of school.  Colin begrudgingly agrees to help JR. During the trip they constantly bicker and argue with each other, revealing that JR's relationship with her parents is dysfunctional.  Colin and JR arrive at a motel to spend the night. The motel owner will only allow married couples to share a room due to the owner's religious convictions.  Colin and JR tell him they are married in order to fool him.  The owner is still skeptical so JR kisses Colin. Later, Colin vomits grossed out from the kiss.  The next day they arrive at Neil's place. JR is surprised to find another girl, who appears to be a student, is in a relationship with Neil.  Before Colin helps JR pickup her belongings from Neil. They engage in a dramatic verbal exchange with Neil.  Later JR notices famous broadcaster Ms. Wagner in a diner.  She tries to ask her for career advice, but Ms. Wagner blows her off.  Leaving from the diner, JR coincidentally meets her old best friend Julia.  Julia is with her friend, Kim, who is Colin's childhood crush.  Julia convinces JR to come to her party promising a TV agent that Julia is friends with will be there.  JR agrees to come to the party and convinces Colin to come by reminding him that Kim will be there.  At the party, the TV agent does not show up and JR has difficulty getting along with her former friends, who seem to have more successful lives than her. Meanwhile, Colin gets into a fight with some guys at the party.  After Colin recovers, he makes out with Kim.  JR walks into the room where Colin is making out, and they engage in a heated argument with Kim.  Colin later vomits, grossed out by Kim.   After the party JR and Colin stop bickering and arguing with each other and connect emotionally. They then passionately kiss and fall asleep; it is implied that they later have sex. The next day, they part as JR drops Colin off at Zoe's house. As JR is about to leave in her car, the front door of the house briefly opens, hinting that Colin is about to come back outside.