Penny Rust is a young, Australian, small-time con artist who catfishes wealthy men, pretending to be an attractive young lady looking for love; then showing up on the first date claiming to be friends with her persona and convincing the man into giving her lots of money, which she claims will go to her persona. Josephine Chesterfield is a young, British, sophisticated con artist who cons the world's richest men out of their money. Their idol is the legendary con artist “Medusa” whose real identity is unknown.  The two con artists meet for the first time while traveling on the French Riviera. Not willing to take a chance with any competition, Josephine tricks Penny into staying on the train. However, after realizing Penny managed to con a wealthy man who Josephine intended to swindle, she has Penny arrested. Josephine pays Penny’s bail and advises Penny to leave the country. While on the plane leaving France, Penny encounters a wealthy Danish man who Josephine stole a highly valuable piece of jewelry belonging to his wife (which he was hoping to sell to pay his gambling debts and then replace with the money he got from the original). Because the jewelry was stolen, he is unable to get any money and his wife has subsequently filed for divorce. Penny is furious that she was tricked, but returns to Josephine begging to be taught how to become professional like her.  Josephine and Penny execute a complicated con act against multiple rich men called The Lord of the Rings, stealing engagement rings. The plan works but Josephine refuses to pay Penny because she's an apprentice. Penny and Josephine wager Penny's entire net worth of $500,000 using billionaire Thomas Westerburg, the creator of a tech app called YaBurnt, as their victim.  Penny initially gains the upper hand by pretending to be blind, something that Thomas could relate to because his grandmother was also blind. Josephine, however, pretends to be a prominent eye doctor to "treat" Penny using unorthodox methods as a ruse to get close to Thomas. Penny uses sympathy gained by a few women at the club to have them ambush Josephine in the bathroom while she spends alone time with Thomas, but she learns that Thomas is not a billionaire and that he intends to use the last amount of his money for her instead.  She tells Josephine that the wager is off, having developed some feelings for him. Josephine changes the wager of stealing Thomas' money to stealing his feelings instead. To hold her up, Josephine tells the women Penny lied to about being blind, and they glue her hand to the wall.  Josephine later shows up at Thomas's hotel room, attempting to seduce him. Penny breaks free from the wall and learns from a hotel server that Josephine never left his room, which makes her assume that they have had sex. The next morning, Thomas admits to Penny that he paid for her eye care, but he must leave France. Penny gives him $500,000 and he leaves in a plane.  Josephine catches up to her, admitting that she and Thomas never had sex and that he conned her into investing $500,000 into his company. Penny realizes that she had also been conned by him; Thomas reveals via text that his grandmother was the original Medusa and he inherited her title, though his feelings for Penny were genuine.  A fortnight later, Penny is leaving Josephine's residence. Out of sympathy, Josephine gives her the money from their "Lord of the Rings" con acts. Their farewell is cut short when Thomas returns while in the middle of a con act against wealthy tourists in which he includes the two women. They reluctantly go along with his act but hold $2,000,000 against him before they trust him. Thomas suggests they work together to make even more money, which Josephine and Penny agree to. They are then shown committing a successful con during the Christmas holidays, getting along, with Penny and Thomas resuming their relationship.  A post-credits scene shows both women in one of their earlier Lord of the Rings con acts.