In the spring of 1945, the Allied armies invade Nazi Germany as the end of World War II draws near. Heinrich (Robert Maaser), a decorated Wehrmacht veteran, is captured after his desertion attempt and hanged by a platoon of Waffen-SS led by a fanatical and somewhat deranged Obersturmbannführer (lieutenant colonel) von Starnfeld (Alexander Scheer). He is rescued by Elsa (Marie Hacke), who brings him to her farm home that she shares with her brother Paule, who has Down syndrome. Meanwhile, the SS arrive In the nearby village and begin to search looking for a large amount of hidden gold in a destroyed house previously occupied by a Jewish family.  Several SS soldiers with Oberscharführer Dörfler (Florian Schmidtke) in charge are sent to Elsa's farmhouse to plunder it for supplies. As Heinrich hides in the attic, the SS abuse Paule, and then attempt to rape Elsa. Heinrich intervenes, and in the ensuing melee the soldiers are killed by Heinrich and Elsa, but their Oberscharführer escapes. Heinrich, Elsa, and Paule leave the farmhouse and hide in the forest. However, Paule is troubled by distress to his beloved dairy cow from being left unmilked and goes back overnight to the farm, where he is captured by Dörfler returning there the following morning with a few soldiers and shooting Paule's cow dead for meat.  The SS bring Paule to the local church and abuse him in front of the villagers. He is marched to the top of the church steeple to be hanged. However, Paule pushes one SS soldier from the tower, grabs that man's MP40 and begins to fire on the SS in the plaza. Heinrich and Elsa arrive as Paule is killed by von Starnfeld with a sniper rifle. In the ensuing battle Elsa is forced to surrender herself to the SS. In the mean time with the gold still not found, the village priest reveals to Heinrich that he had witnessed four townspeople, including the mayor and the scheming Nazi sympathizer Sonja, steal the gold from the rightful owners during the events of Kristallnacht and burn down their home; the priest in turn stole the gold from them and hid it in his church. Heinrich plans to use the gold to draw the SS in and to free Elsa.  Elsa poisons the Obersturmbannführer with his cyanide capsule, and a firefight between the remainder of the SS platoon and the villagers along with Heinrich and Elsa erupts. At the end of the battle, with the SS defeated, Heinrich and Elsa leave the village. Sonja manages to escape unobserved with the stolen gold in a Volkswagen Kübelwagen; but as she's driving through the countryside, an American Sherman tank crew destroys her vehicle. The soldiers discover her lying mortally wounded and the gold bullions scattered all around the destroyed car; while at first they consider reporting in the discovery, their sergeant then tells them not to, so the group could split it among themselves instead. Later Heinrich and Elsa are seen arriving at the city of Hagen, where Heinrich has an emotional reunion with his daughter.