Sherman "Tank" Turner is a help line operator and a ladies' man with a unique side hustle: He helps guys who want a lady back by taking her on a bad date. Throughout the evening, Tank inevitably behaves moronically, causing the woman to realize her ex is not really so bad after all and go back to him.  Tank shares an apartment with his step cousin Dustin who has fallen for his colleague Alexis. Dustin takes her on a date, professing his love, but she insists they remain friends. After the date, he explains his situation to Tank, who volunteers his services as a good friend (instead of having to pay for it). Initially turning him down, the next day, he sees Alexis flirting with another co-worker and begs Tank to take Alexis out. He accepts.  Tank bumps into Alexis, and they arrange to go out. He behaves badly all night, but she is too drunk to care. When he drops her off she expects him to come in but he resists out of loyalty to Dustin. Alexis calls Dustin, but when they meet, she explains that the date with Tank has motivated her to see other men. Dustin sends Alexis roses and an apology poem in Tank's name, and she calls him, berating him for leaving early the previous night. Tank goes to see her, and they end up having casual sex on a regular basis while Dustin begins a series of desperate attempts to stay friends with her.  Dustin prepares to go on a date with a single mother, but when he arrives to pick her up, she is breast-feeding her child. In an effort to be funny, he awkwardly remarks that he would like to have what the baby is having. Now creeped out and furious, she yells at Dustin, throws him out and cancels their date. Distraught, he goes to Alexis's but is told by her roommate that she is busy upstairs with the guy she has been having sex with regularly. Dustin, even more upset and refusing to leave, starts to walk up the stairs only to discover that the man Alexis has been sleeping with is actually Tank.  Tank and Dustin get into a fight and go their separate ways. Tank's feelings for Alexis have grown, and he decides to consult with his father. After talking with him, he has doubts that he deserves a serious relationship with her. He keeps a date with Hilary, a keenly Christian Girl who he has promised a fellow office worker to bad date with, but hurts Hilary's feelings so, that he abjectly apologizes, and they eat and semi-seriously talk about his side hustle. Also an English Teacher, She invites Tank and Alexis to a 1970's style School Prom, where Tank and Alexis connect more. While attending the wedding of Alexis's sister Rachel, he recognizes her as one of his previous bad dates. The groom, Josh, asks him to keep quiet about his use of his services. After overhearing Alexis telling Rachel she has fallen for him, Tank's guilt causes him to sabotage their relationship and apologize to Dustin.  Dustin arrives at the wedding reception, revealing Tank's schemes to Alexis. Tank points out his clients, including the groom, and is punched and thrown out. Alexis, distraught since Tank used her and Dustin asked for his help to cheaply win her, never wants to see either of them again. Later, while talking with Dustin and his father, Tank realizes that he loves Alexis, so they encourage him to reconcile with her. Finding her, he jogs with her for a few miles in an attempt to make amends, but Alexis is unmoved.  Three months later, Tank is on a date when Alexis sees him and spontaneously decides to sabotage it by embarrassing him. Throwing wine in his face, she then announces to the whole restaurant that he left her pregnant. He soon catches on to her "joke", and they continue to loudly exchange insults (some of which shadow ones used previously), each trying to best the other in a "play argument" of insults and bantering, after which they reconcile with a kiss.  The film ends, suggesting their relationship is back on. As the titles roll, Dustin and Alexis's roommate Ami sleep together after realizing their common sexual interests.