After a car accident that left her unable to have children, Shannon (Rachelle Lefevre) and her husband, Steven (Ryan Phillippe), decide to adopt a Haitian girl, Nina, orphaned after the 2010 earthquake, through the IRA (International Rescue Adoption), an organization run by Gabrielle Reigert (Jacki Weaver) and based in Puerto Rico. Having paid $60,000, the two move to a resort while they wait for Nina's United States passport to arrive. Steven takes an instant dislike at his neighbors, Benjamin (John Cusack), Salo (Jandres Burgos), and Paola (Veronica Faye Foo), especially after a misunderstanding with Salo at a bar, where he tells them about Nina, leads to a fight.  Two days after the adoption, the couple wake up to discover that Nina has disappeared. They begin their search and contact a police officer (Luis Guzmán) who tells them that their adoption documents are not recorded, while the IRA's headquarters in Old San Juan has been deserted. Steven admits that Reigert had demanded an additional $40,000 as part of the adoption cost, which he did not tell to Shannon beforehand. The officer then suggests that the IRA is a confidence schemer which offers orphans to unsuspecting couples in exchange for a hefty sum of money, only to take them away just a few days afterward. That night, Steven and Shannon are kidnapped by Benjamin and his aides, who reveal themselves to be child traffickers working for Reigert. Holding Nina, they force the couple to send their entire savings, which are largely compensation for the car accident that left them unable to conceive.  The next day, Steven heads to the bank at gunpoint to collect the savings. Having taken note that Benjamin's mansion was in Maunabo, he escapes back to the mansion with the money from Salo. Meanwhile, Shannon breaks free from her captivity, takes Nina, then distracts Paola long enough for Steven to take her gun and vehicle to facilitate his escape with his wife and Nina. They are pursued by Benjamin and Salo, though the latter is killed when a truck hits his car. After a chase, Benjamin crashes his car and is presumed dead, while the couple and Nina narrowly avoid falling from a steep cliff.  The three are escorted back by the officer, but he is killed by Benjamin who, having survived his crash, knocks Steven unconscious before taking them to Reigert's villa. A dispute regarding his shares of the money causes Benjamin to shoot Reigert dead. Steven recovers and follows Benjamin, who chases Shannon into a decrepit building. Just before he is able to murder Shannon, Steven arrives and kills Benjamin. Nina then arrives, traumatized by the incident, picks up Benjamin’s gun and points it at Steven and Shannon. They manage to convince her to put it down and to live with them.  The film ends with a text showing the viewers that 1.2 million children are being trafficked each year with a quote: "They are invisible and they are everywhere."