Six teenagers on a chaperoned rehabilitation camping trip find themselves being hunted by mutant giant birds infected with a mysterious virus that changed the birds into deadly predators.  Porky is the first to be injured by the birds. Counselor Guy gets killed by birds. The teens devise a plan to escape, with Johnson proclaiming himself leader. When the teens flee to a dangerous military bunker, the birds follow. Derrick takes Gun from Johnson. Johnson accidentally Pushes Derrick's Hand accidentally Killing Kid named Hank. Eva finds a walkie talkie and gets in contact with park ranger Garrett (Lance Guest), asking for rescue. The group has No other Choice to flee the fort as Porky is eaten alive. Garrett and Jacqueline head out to save the teenagers. Group of Scientists & Cops get Killed while Trying to Destroy the dam Birds. A nurse Also gets Infected tries to Leave hospital But Security has No Choice to Kill that Nurse. Nurse gets Killed.  After a successful escape, Derrick is attacked by a bird but escapes. The group continues north and discovers a house. They check the nearby shed, which is a meat locker.  Derrick's infection begins ravaging his body and Johnson plans to shoot him because he's a liability. When Derrick jumps onto Johnson, Derrick's saliva falls into Johnson's mouth. Garret and Jacqueline pinpoint the teens' location, but can't reach them because the birds are outside. The group makes a run for the meat shed. Lola and Eva throw out some meat to catch the birds' attention but the birds aren't taking it; they like fresh meat. Derrick hobbles out and offers himself as bait to the birds. They attack and eat him alive. The group finally meets Garrett and Jacqueline and load into the car. The birds attack the car, and Garrett loses control, flipping the car over. Everyone takes shelter under a concrete tunnel. They return to the military bunker, which is leaking gas. A giant Dam bird Attacks the Police Helicopter which Crashes to Ground explosion. Although a Bird got Killed in Explosion, It is Unfortunate that Innocent Pilot & Cop also Died. They make a plan to blow up the birds using explosives. Johnson wants to be the bait to lure the birds in because Johnson is infected by Derrick. As they all flee, Eva pauses, looking back sadly at Johnson, who says he'll make it. The birds block Johnson's escape route and he shoots the explosive, sending the building in flames. The group leaves, remembering Johnson.