In March 1997, after Loomis Fargo & Company has been robbed of $18.8 million in Jacksonville by company security guard Philip Noel Johnson, Steve Eugene Chambers and Kelly Campbell, a former employee of Loomis. They involve Loomis armored car driver David Scott Ghantt.  After some awkward training in preparation for the robbery, the team has David go inside Loomis' vault and load the entire money supply into the company's van. Before he leaves, he takes out three CCTV tapes, but misses one. The next day, he flees to Mexico with $20,000 and takes the cover name "Michael McKinney", the name of a friend of Steve's. Meanwhile, Steve takes most of the heist, around $17 million.  FBI Special Agent Scanlon and her partner identify David as the prime suspect, but have no idea of Steve's involvement. Steve plans to tell the FBI where David is, but Kelly thinks it would be wrong to abandon him.  In Mexico, David narrowly evades three Interpol agents looking for him, and calls Kelly about what happened. He inadvertently learns Steve's name from the ID in a wallet Kelly gave him. With his cover blown, Steve hires his hitman friend Michael McKinney to hunt David down. Michael finds David and attempts to shoot him, but the gun backfires and David escapes.  David phones Kelly and learns that Steve is trying to kill him. David is then knocked unconscious by McKinney. When he regains consciousness, McKinney is about to kill him but reconsiders upon looking at "McKinney"'s birth certificate, thinking that David was born with the same name, in the same place, on the same day; they become friends.  David calls Steve, threatening to surrender himself to Interpol if he does not wire $6 million into his bank account within two days. Kelly, while shopping in preparation to meet David in Mexico, is then attacked by Jandice, who has learned of her involvement with David. Kelly escapes, but Steve's two friends kidnap her, and he tells David to get a ticket to South America in exchange for her release.  At the airport, David meets McKinney, who is returning to the U.S. for his next hit. He sees Kelly's name written on McKinney's hand and realizes she is his next victim. When he tells McKinney she is his girlfriend, McKinney says he can't possibly kill her, and they switch tickets so David can rescue her. At that moment the three Interpol agents attempt to start to arrest them, but in their enthusiasm, David and McKinney overpower them.  Steve is hosting a party at his lavishly tacky mansion. The FBI, attempting to record Steve's confession, put a wire on one of his neighbor guests. David sneaks into the party and rescues Kelly. They escape by stealing Steve's BMW but it crashes as they attempt to drive through the gate. Steve catches and assaults David, but David realizes they are next to a disguised  FBI van with agents listening inside, and tricks Steve into admitting he masterminded the robbery.  David is sentenced to seven years in prison, while Steve serves eleven years. About $2 million is still unaccounted for. When David is released, McKinney meets him at the prison and they drive to visit Kelly.