Mitchie Torres and her mother, Connie, return to Camp Rock for another summer. They see a new camp, Camp Star, has opened across from them and Mitchie and her friends notice there are fewer campers at Camp Rock. After Opening Jam, the camp's meet-and-greet, Camp Star send snacks to Camp Rock and invite them to their upcoming bonfire event that night. Brown Cesario, Camp Rock's director, is hesitant to attend as Camp Star was founded by Axel Turner, whom Brown kicked out of his band years ago.  Most of Camp Rock attend at Mitchie's behest and they soon realize the bonfire was to set up an expensive, elaborate performance to entice their campers and counselors to join Camp Star; while few campers join (including Tess Tyler), several counselors make the switch. With minimal staff, Brown announces the closure of camp but Mitchie and her friends persuade him to keep it open after assuming roles as counselors. Meanwhile, during the performance, Axel's daughter, Dana, has her bracelet come loose from her hand and hit Nate Gray; after returning the bracelet, they begin to bond, but Dana is dismayed at Nate's nonchalance.  Mitchie and her friends initially struggle to settle into their role as counselors. Upset at being blindsided during their visit, they revisit Camp Star, who are shown to solely prioritize practicing music, with no space for other activities. Axel suggests broadcasting a competition between the camps on television, with the winner decided by a public vote; although reluctant, Mitchie agrees at the urging of her friends. This angers Brown, and Mitchie overhears him tell Connie that if Camp Rock were to lose, it could result in the permanent closure of the camp.  Mitchie urges focus on winning the competition, which frustrates other campers and Shane Gray, Mitchie's boyfriend, who returned to Camp Rock to spend time with her. Dismayed at this strict performance-oriented nature of camp, Shane and the other counselors organize a water balloon fight to improve the campers' spirits; this angers Mitchie, and she and Shane argue. The next day, Mitchie finds everyone rehearsing for the competition, led by Shane, and they reconcile. Meanwhile, Nate sneaks into Camp Star to express his feelings to Dana and is caught by Axel.  As the competition, Brown finds out Axel has spent exorbitant sums to ensure voting for Camp Star is easier than voting for Camp Rock. Camp Rock performs, accompanied by a video montage of camp activities, but Camp Star wins the competition. Mitchie apologizes to Shane about not spending enough time with him and they kiss. At the final Camp Rock bonfire of the summer, many members of Camp Star, including Tess and Dana, opt to join Camp Rock, impressed at the camp's culture. This ensures enough campers for another summer.