PJ and Josie are unpopular lesbian best friends at Rockbridge Falls High School who have never had sex. Josie and PJ pine for popular cheerleaders Isabel and Brittany, respectively. At the beginning of their school year, PJ and Josie, joined by their friend Hazel, attend the local fair, where they witness Isabel and her boyfriend Jeff, the quarterback of the Rockbridge Falls Vikings, having an argument. Isabel gets into PJ and Josie's car, and they softly bump Jeff's knees when he refuses to move out of the way. Jeff falls to the ground, feigning severe injury.  When school starts, rumors spread that PJ and Josie were in juvie over the summer and that the girls had physically fought Jeff. When Principal Meyers threatens them with expulsion, Josie lies that they were simply practicing for a feminist "self-defense club". PJ and Josie decide to actually set up the self-defense club in the name of female empowerment with Hazel's help, though they secretly want to use it to get attractive girls to have sex with them. They ask Mr. G, a careless and disinterested history teacher currently going through a divorce, to be their advisor since they assume he won't show up for the club meetings, though he does anyway. He attempts to shut the club down after seeing how violent it is, but PJ and Josie manage to convince him that it's about female empowerment and he changes his mind, growing more interested in feminism as a result.  The club grows closer through their chaotic and violent practice, while PJ and Josie continue their lie about having been to juvie. Jeff's overprotective best friend Tim, a fellow Vikings player, suspects that PJ and Josie never went to juvie and calls local juvenile halls to confirm that there was no record of them having gone. Hazel discovers that her mother is having an affair with Jeff. Josie tells Isabel, and Isabel breaks up with Jeff in front of the student body in the cafeteria. The club decide to vandalize Jeff's house with eggs and toilet paper, though Hazel builds a bomb that blows up his car. Tim suspects the club is involved, and all of the club members except for PJ accept that the club will end as Principal Meyers will believe anything Jeff and Tim say. Faced with the club's disbandment, PJ and Hazel bicker, and PJ humiliates Hazel for being a loner. Tim watches from outside and calls out towards Hazel as she storms away crying. The following evening, Josie invites Isabel to her room and they have sex. Meanwhile, PJ kisses Brittany, but Brittany informs her that she is straight.  At the pep rally for the upcoming football game against longtime rival Huntington High School, Tim calls on Hazel to represent the club by fighting the school's top boxer in combat. Hazel manages to hold her own for a while, but ultimately loses the fight and is severely injured. Tim reveals the lies behind PJ and Josie's "fight club" and time in juvie, publicly humiliating them in retaliation for taking attention away from the football team and "injuring" Jeff. PJ and Josie argue over who was responsible for the club and fall out, and the two are ostracized at school, even being told off by Mr. G, who renounces feminism and goes back to his old chauvinistic ways.  Josie seeks advice from her childhood babysitter Rhodes, who reveals that per tradition, Huntington intends to kill a Rockbridge football player at the upcoming game. Hoping to prevent this, PJ and Josie rekindle their friendship, and then make up with Hazel and the rest of the girls in the club, though they are unable to recruit Isabel and Brittany. They realize Huntington High has tied several large barrels of pineapple juice into the football field's sprinkler system to kill Jeff, who is deathly allergic to pineapple.  Hazel tries to distract the audience by blowing up a tree, but the bomb fails. She and PJ manage to divert everyone's attention by publicly making out. Upon the arrival of Huntington High's team, Isabel and Brittany rejoin the club and a brutal, bloody brawl ensues between the players and the fight club. Josie heroically carries Jeff off the football field to safety and falls on top of him afterwards. Jeff attempts to kiss her, but Josie immediately rebuffs him. The players are beaten by the girls and several of them are killed. The sprinklers go off and Tim tastes the pineapple juice, realizing the plot to murder Jeff and calls to celebrate the club for saving Jeff. Josie and Isabel embrace with a kiss. The tree bomb finally explodes, interrupting the celebration.