In 1980, young Darrin Hill and his mother, MaryAnn, are run out of Monte Carlo, Georgia, after MaryAnn is soon discovered to be singing secular R&B music while also singing in their church's choir. After being confronted about this by the self-righteous and domineering Paulina Pritchett, MaryAnn is forced to choose between singing professionally or remaining in the choir. MaryAnn chooses the former, and she and Darrin are last seen on a bus saying goodbye to their beloved Aunt Sally, as they sadly wave to each other.  In 2003, Darrin is a successful advertising executive in New York City with a bad habit of lying; MaryAnn is later revealed to have died in a hit-and-run accident when he was a teenager. His secretary and only loving, true friend, Rosa Lopez, keeps his credit problems under control. However, Darrin has achieved so much under false pretenses, having faked his college degree and high school diploma and lied about being the son of a congressman. Eventually, his lies get him in trouble with his paranoid boss, resulting in Darrin‘s termination. After being tracked down by a private investigator, Darrin finds out that Aunt Sally has died.  Darrin returns to Monte Carlo and upon arrival, finds new friendships in Paulina's grandson Jimmy B. and Lucious, the town's happy-go-lucky, womanizing cab driver. After Aunt Sally's funeral, Darrin learns from Reverend Paul Lewis, the church's pastor and Paulina's brother, that Aunt Sally stated in her will that he must direct the church choir and enter the annual "Gospel Explosion" competition and win $10,000 and in doing so, will inherit Aunt Sally's stock in the company that produces the show which is currently worth $150,000. This, however, does not sit well with Paulina, as she had originally been next in line.  Upon taking charge of the once-powerful choir, Darrin discovers only a handful of members remain. After several setbacks, Darrin eventually recruits many new members, most of which he does so by promising them half of the prize money to them (though he has no intention of actually paying anyone). He also reconnects with his childhood friend and crush Lilly, who was also ostracized due to being a nightclub singer, and having a son, Dean, out of wedlock. Lilly at first refuses to join the choir, but with some assurance from Darrin, she ultimately becomes the choir's new lead singer, causing Paulina to quit in retaliation.  Several weeks later, Paulina reveals that Darrin failed to enter the choir into the auditions on time. Luckily, the audition judge, Luther Washington, who is also the town's prison warden, lets them perform for his prisoners when another act cancels. Thanks to Lilly's beautiful looks and voice, the choir performs well, and Washington lets them into the competition. Washington also lets Darrin borrow three convicts, Bee-Z Briggs, Lightfoot, and Mr. Johnson, who can sing and rap.  After weeks of success, the choir and the church has become more popular. Lilly starts to trust Darrin and develops romantic feelings for him as well. However, Paulina takes a message for Darrin in a phone call from Rosa and learns of his past troubles. The next afternoon, Paulina deliberately reveals Darrin's secrets with a polite demeanor in order to make herself look innocent. Lilly, furious that Darrin had been using her all along, coldly tells him that she does not care what he does, and the choir members begin to panic and become angry at him for his lies. Darrin, however, rebukes them for their hypocrisy of joining the choir just to get paid, as well as the rest of the churchgoers for running him and his mother out of town all those years ago simply over her decision to pursue her singing dreams.  Darrin quits and returns to New York, where he has been offered his job back with a promotion. However, shortly after Darrin gets the promotion and a new condo, he comes to realize that none of these things mean anything without Lilly and the choir. Darrin quits and returns to Monte Carlo to reconcile with Lilly. Afterwards, the two recruit Lucious and the Reverend, and they all rush down to the Gospel Explosion to join the choir for the performance.  When Darrin and Lilly arrive, Paulina, having taken over as director, tries to keep them out, citing that Darrin forfeited his inheritance when he left Monte Carlo. However, Reverend Lewis finally stands up to Paulina and calls her out for her actions. He then reveals that her husband, whom she previously had claimed was deceased, is alive and remarried to a better woman. Lilly scolds Paulina for insulting Sally's will and wishes, which gave Darrin the choir. They manage to convince the others to vote Paulina out of the choir, giving Darrin his position as director back.  Before their performance begins, Darrin tells Lilly that she inspired him to name the choir The Fighting Temptations. They win the competition, but before ending his acceptance speech, Darrin starts a proper relationship with Lilly by surprising her with an unexpected marriage proposal, which she accepts. Eighteen months later, the two are shown to be happily married with a baby of their own. In addition, the church is about to undergo an expansion, and Paulina has returned to the choir after seemingly reforming her ways.