Injured and dazed, the sole survivor of a car crash on Mulholland Drive, a winding road high in the Hollywood Hills, walks into Los Angeles and sneaks into an apartment. Aspiring actress Betty Elms arrives at the apartment, normally occupied by her Aunt Ruth. She is startled to find the woman, who has amnesia and calls herself "Rita" after seeing a poster for the film Gilda starring Rita Hayworth. In Rita's purse Betty finds a large quantity of cash and a distinctive blue key.  At Winkie's diner, a man tells another about a nightmare in which he encounters a horrific figure behind the diner. When they investigate, the figure appears, and the man collapses. Mobsters insist director Adam Kesher cast unknown actress Camilla Rhodes as the lead in his film. He refuses and returns home to find his wife Lorraine cheating on him. The mobsters withdraw his line of credit and Adam meets a cowboy, who urges him to cast Camilla for his own good. A bungling hitman attempts to steal a book of phone numbers and leaves three people dead.  Betty and Rita are served at Winkie's by waitress Diane, causing Rita to remember the name "Diane Selwyn". Finding Diane Selwyn in the phone book they call but there is no answer. Betty's audition is highly praised and a casting agent takes her to Adam's soundstage where he is directing The Sylvia North Story. Camilla sings "I've Told Every Little Star", Adam capitulates to the mob by casting her. Betty locks eyes with Adam but flees without meeting him. Betty and Rita go to Diane Selwyn's apartment, where a neighbor answers the door saying she and Diane switched apartments. At the neighbor's apartment they find a woman who has been dead several days. Back at Betty's apartment Rita disguises herself with a blonde wig and she and Betty have sex.  Rita awakes at 2 a.m., insisting they go to Club Silencio theater. The emcee there explains in different languages that everything is an illusion; Rebekah Del Rio begins the song "Crying" in Spanish, then collapses while her vocals continue in playback. Betty finds a blue box in her purse that matches Rita's key. Back at the apartment, Rita retrieves the key and finds that Betty has disappeared. Rita unlocks the box and it falls to the floor. Aunt Ruth enters the room to find nobody there.  Diane Selwyn awakens in her bed in the apartment Betty and Rita investigated. Her neighbor says two police officers are looking for her. She looks exactly like Betty, but is a struggling actress in a deep depression due to her failed affair with Camilla Rhodes, who is a successful actress and looks exactly like Rita. At Camilla's invitation, Diane attends a party at Adam's house on Mulholland Drive. Diane says she came to Hollywood from Canada after her aunt died and left her some money, and that she met Camilla at an audition for The Sylvia North Story. A woman, who looks like the "Camilla Rhodes" who auditioned for Adam, kisses Camilla, and they turn and look at Diane. Adam and Camilla prepare to announce their engagement, but dissolve into laughter and kiss while Diane watches, teary-eyed.  Diane meets the hitman at Winkie's and hires him to kill Camilla. He says she will find a blue key when the job is completed. The figure from the man's dream has the matching blue box. In her apartment, Diane looks at the blue key on her coffee table while someone knocks on the door. Terrorized by hallucinations, she runs screaming to her bed and shoots herself. A blue-haired woman at the theater whispers "Silencio".