Actor London Clash wakes up to text messages from his girlfriend, Apple, including an apology and the phrase ‘good mourning.’ He is unable to reach her, and worries that the messages are a breakup. Compounding his stress are the arrival of his new assistant, Olive, and a role in a new Batman film that he is waiting to hear about. He manages to make contact with Apple, but their conversation is interrupted when Trippie Redd hits him with a water balloon, breaking his phone. London, along with friends Angel and Leo, break into Apple’s house looking for her, only to shatter urns containing her cremated relatives. Angel proposes using cannabis ash to replace the remains, and the three embark on a heavy smoking session with the help of their friends Dylan, Fat Joe and Kennedy.   Olive provides London with a new phone, which he uses to get in touch with Apple. However, when his friends return to Apple’s house to replace the urns, they see her leaving the house with another man. London skips a meeting with the director of the Batman movie to meet Apple at a Van Nuys airport. He is knocked out by the unknown man, which is filmed by Dennis Rodman, but is rescued and treated by his stalker, Sabrina. Meanwhile, Leo attends the meeting in London’s place, wearing a mask to conceal his identity. In the middle of the meeting, he and Dylan are arrested after being spotted leaving Apple’s house.  London makes it home to find Apple waiting, who reveals that the mysterious man was her stylist, and the ‘good mourning’ text was simply a typo. Furious at London for his behavior, she breaks up with him, and Maxine fires him as a client. After bailing Dylan and Leo out of jail, the group heads to a party Apple is attending YG’s house, but are unable to get in. After getting Fat Joe out of a k-hole, they travel to a late night diner. Olive arrives with Maxine on the phone, who tells London that the viral video of him getting punched in the face has landed him the Batman role. He calls Apple, who agrees to meet him at the site of their first kiss. However, while texting and driving, he crashes into Apple, landing the two of them in the same hospital room together.  A post-credits scene appears to indicate that the events of the film were in fact an episode of a television show, with London Clash (played by a British actor) a character.