In 1997, Luke Glanton is a motorcycle stuntman with a traveling carnival. In Schenectady, he meets his ex-lover Romina Gutierrez, who is now with another man, Kofi Kancam. Luke discovers that he unknowingly fathered Romina's baby Jason the previous year. He leaves the carnival to stay near mother and son.  Luke begins working part-time for mechanic Robin Van Der Hook. When he asks for more work Robin reveals his past as a bank robber and suggests they commit robberies together. Luke robs the banks at gunpoint and gets away on his motorcycle which he rides into a van driven by Robin.  Luke and Romina have sex in his caravan and he spends time with her and Jason. He lets himself into Romina and Kofi's house and attempts to assemble a crib for Jason. When Kofi demands he leave Luke strikes him with a wrench and is arrested. Robin bails him out of jail and Luke says he wants to provide for Jason's future. Robin refuses to do any more robberies and the pair fall out. Robin dismantles Luke's motorcycle, so Luke robs Robin and buys a new bike with the money.  Luke bungles a bank robbery and is pursued by police on foot. He enters a stranger's home and phones Romina to ask her not to tell Jason about him. Novice police officer Avery Cross enters the room and shoots Luke in the stomach. He fires back, hitting Avery in the leg, then falls out of the window to his death.  Avery, a married man with a baby son, is hailed as a hero. He is remorseful but tells police investigators that Luke shot first. A group of corrupt officers coerce Avery to join them in seizing the stolen money from Romina's home.  Avery later tries to return his cut to Romina, who rejects it. He attempts to hand the money over to the chief of police, who rebuffs him. Avery secretly records other illegal practices in the department and uses the recordings to obtain a position as assistant district attorney.  Fifteen years later in 2012, Avery is running for Attorney General of New York. His rebellious, drug-using teenage son A.J. has been living with Avery's ex-wife, Jennifer, but now moves in with his father and transfers to Schenectady High School, befriending the now-teenage Jason. Neither boy knows the history between their fathers.  When the teens are arrested for felony drug possession, Avery recognizes Jason's name and gets Jason's charge dropped to a misdemeanor. He orders A.J. to stay away from him.  Kofi tells Jason his birth father's name, which allows him to discover Luke's past. Jason visits Robin, who tells him about Luke and their robberies. A.J. pressures Jason to steal OxyContin for a party. At the party, Jason discovers that A.J.'s father, Avery, is the man who killed his father, Luke. Jason is hospitalized after a violent confrontation with A.J., and buys a gun when he is released.  Jason goes to the Cross family home, assaults A.J., and takes Avery hostage. He forces Avery to drive into the woods where Avery breaks down and apologizes. Jason leaves him unharmed but takes his wallet. Inside it, Jason finds a photo of himself with his parents, which Avery had stolen from the evidence locker.  Some time later, Avery becomes New York attorney general and celebrates with A.J. at his side. Romina receives an envelope addressed to "Mom", with the old photograph inside. Jason buys a motorcycle and rides away.