Dealing with his guilt after being forced to kill his assassin coworkers, Mike Fallon moves to the island of Malta to decompress and get away from London, finding work as a hitman-for-hire in nearby countries and keeping martial artist Wong Siu-ling on his payroll to fight him at random times and keep his skills sharp. One night, Mike runs into his old friend Finicky Fred, who informs him that their former boss Big Ray lost his assassin's bar after Mike's vengeful rampage. Fred is also out of money because he gave a large sum to a woman with whom he fell in love online. Mike takes pity on Fred and allows him to stay in his house and assist him on hits. The two put together a secret headquarters to test out Fred's gadgets and plan jobs.   On Mike's advice, Fred rejects a contract put out on Dante Zuuzer, the spoiled heir to a Cosa Nostra organization that even Mike fears. After carrying out another hit, Mike and Fred are abducted and taken to meet with Mrs. Zuuzer, who asks Mike to hunt down and kill whoever took out the contract on Dante in exchange for sparing Fred's life; an attempted hit on Dante had been carried out using Mike's modus operandi. The Zuuzers release Mike, who encounters Big Ray in his local pub - Fred had sent a letter to Ray explaining their new business operation against Mike's advice. Ray vows revenge on Mike, revealing that he is in Malta for a job, and Mike deduces he was behind the attempt on Dante's life. Ray explains that the client has raised the bounty to €9 million and opened the contract to any takers, as well as hacked into the tracking device in Dante's watch to broadcast his location.   Mike resolves to protect Dante in order to keep Fred alive. Mike arrives at the karaoke bar where Dante sings, but Dante refuses to destroy his watch and swallows it. Freya du Preeze arrives first and kills Dante's team of bodyguards before Mike fights and kills her with a barbecue skewer. Mike then forces Dante to take a laxative in order to pass the watch, but the two are accosted by blood-drinking Yendi the Vampire, who Mike kills with his own machete. They travel to Mike's headquarters, hoping to keep Dante secure, where Mike meets Siu-ling. Mike fights Poco the Killer Clown and kills him with one of Fred's previously broken gadgets, while Siu-ling fights rival assassin Silas the Strangler and strangles him to death with a heavy chain. Dante manages to pass the watch before nearly being killed by swordsman Oyumi.  Mike challenges him to a hand-to-hand fight for Dante's life, but receives a beating before Big Ray arrives and kills Oyumi with a shotgun. Ray attempts to kill Dante, but Mike convinces him to stand down for Fred and destroy the tracking device. Mike, Ray, and Siu-ling transport Dante to Mrs. Zuuzer to exchange him for Fred; Mrs. Zuuzer orders Mike and Fred to leave the island, but Ray detonates an explosive that Fred had planted in Dante's suit, killing Dante and Mrs. Zuuzer and earning them the €9 million bounty. Fred meets the woman he fell in love with online, but Mike explains that she left him after learning he was an assassin. In a voiceover, Mike tells that the bounty allowed him, Fred and Ray to set up a new assassins' organization and move on to the next chapter of their lives.