Agatha Weiss arrives in Los Angeles and employs limousine driver Jerome to take her to the site of the former house of child star Benjie Weiss. Agatha has severe burns to her face and body, requiring her to take a copious amount of medication. Benjie visits a child suffering from non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the hospital; the girl later dies, and Benjie is confronted by her ghost. Benjie's father, Dr. Stafford Weiss, is a TV psychologist who is treating aging actress Havana Segrand for abuse she suffered at the hands of her deceased mother, also an actress. Havana's agent struggles to get Havana a role in a remake of her mother's film Stolen Waters. Havana routinely hallucinates about the deceased younger version of her mother.  Benjie and his mother, Cristina, negotiate a role for Benjie in a film as his comeback after drug rehabilitation. At the suggestion of Carrie Fisher, Havana hires Agatha, whom Carrie had met on Twitter, as a personal assistant. Agatha continues to see Jerome, and a romance forms, though Jerome appears resistant at first. Stafford learns through Havana that Agatha has returned to L.A. Agatha is Benjie's sister – however, she is shunned by her parents (Cristina and Stafford).  Using Havana's role in Stolen Waters to gain access to the production lot, Agatha visits Benjie on set. A schizophrenic, Agatha tells him that she has returned from a sanatorium to make amends for setting the fire that burned her and nearly killed him when he was seven. When Stafford learns Agatha visited Benjie, he finds her in her hotel room, gives her $10,000, and tells her to leave L.A. before she ruins everything.  Benjie breaks his sobriety, getting high on GHB, and carelessly shoots the dog of his only friend. Agatha visits her mother, Cristina, and reveals that before she set the fire she had discovered that her parents were brother and sister, making Agatha and Benjie children of incest. Cristina tells her they were separated as children and didn't know they were related. Stafford comes home, and when Agatha tells him she knows about their familial relations, Stafford violently beats her, until Cristina intervenes. During the altercation, Agatha steals Cristina's wedding ring. On set, Benjie is haunted by the girl from the hospital and, during an hallucination, he strangles his young co-star. The child survives, though Benjie is now to be replaced in the film.  Havana requests Jerome as a driver and seduces him in the backseat of his parked limo in the driveway of her home as Agatha watches from the window. Havana enters the house and berates Agatha for her poor performance at work and then verbally humiliates her when she finds that the girl has stained her expensive couch with menstrual blood. Agatha beats Havana to death with one of her awards.  Benjie escapes the hospital and comes to Havana's house to find Agatha. Agatha tells him it all must end now. She shows him that she has their mother's wedding ring and instructs him to go get their father's ring.  Stafford returns home to see Cristina on fire outside beside the pool. As she screams, engulfed in flames, he uses a piece of pool furniture to push her into the pool where she dies. Benjie arrives and finds his father by the pool in a catatonic state. He takes his father's wedding ring off his finger, then reunites with Agatha at the site of their previous home that Agatha had burned down. On the fireplace hearth, the siblings perform an impromptu wedding ceremony with their parents' wedding rings.  They take an extreme amount of Agatha's pills together so that they may die by suicide, before lying down to watch the stars.   Underlying theme   Throughout the film, liberal quotings from Paul Éluard's poem "Liberté" meander "through each of the characters' lives," creating an underlying mantra for the film.