Zoe, a 15-year-old teenager, is taken to the doctor for back pain. She is diagnosed with scoliosis, necessitating the use of a back brace for a number of years, until she stops growing. As she fears she will be ostracized at school, she's angry at her mother for insisting on it. Her father is upset that she inherited the affliction from him.  Noticing the slightly older Shelby in the neighborhood, Zoe introduces herself, offering her friendship. Zoe works a few hours a week babysitting for married couple Chance and Vera. A photographer, he insists that she could become a model. Having developed a crush on him, Zoe impulsively kisses him one evening as he's dropping her off.  Meanwhile, Shelby has accepted Zoe's friendship. She shares with Zoe the difficulties she faces in her home life, as her father is an alcoholic who is abusive towards her and her mother. Her parents are also conservative and controlling, insisting she stay at home if not working.  As the story progresses, Zoe and Shelby encounter each other at school. One day after school, when Shelby  isn't there to go home with her, Zoe goes to her house and sees police cruisers out front. Later, she learns that Shelby had called them from frustration over her violent father.  Zoe is then unhappy to learn that she was awarded a summer job for the park district, partially due to being considered handicapped. So, she has to give up her babysitting during the week. Chance suggests she do the photo shoot that weekend, where they flirt a lot, and several provocative shots are taken.  Despite the emotional and physical hardships both girls experience, their friendship deepens and evolves, leading to significant changes in both their lives. However, their relationship is challenged when Shelby's mother catches the girls kissing for the first time. Shelby's mother is so upset, she is forbidden from seeing Zoe.   Meanwhile, Vera becomes suspicious that something happened between Zoe and Chance on the weekend he photographed her while she and the kids were away. She subsequently finds her at her weekday job to tell her they no longer need her as a babysitter.  After three years, Zoe stops needing the brace, Shelby gets married to a man, and Zoe attends as a guest. Later on, Chance visits Zoe at her work and invites her over to his place while Vera and their children are away on a trip on the weekend with her parents. However, when Chance strips down, wanting to have sex during her visit, Zoe realizes that she cannot sleep with him.   In the concluding scene, Shelby briefly visits before Zoe departs for college, as her mother has let her know she's leaving. Wishing her luck, both of them promise to keep a bit of each other in their hearts.