In 1944, at the Auschwitz concentration camp, Nazi officer Klaus Schmidt witnesses a young Erik Lehnsherr bending a metal gate with his mind upon being separated from his parents. Schmidt brings Erik into his office and tells him to move a coin on his desk. When Erik cannot do it, Schmidt kills his mother. Distraught, Erik's magnetic power manifests, destroying the room. Separately, at a mansion in Westchester County, New York, child telepath Charles Xavier meets Raven, whose natural form is blue-skinned scales and a shapeshifter, and invites her to live with him.  In 1962, Erik is tracking Schmidt, while Xavier earns his doctorate from the University of Oxford. In Las Vegas, CIA officer Moira MacTaggert follows U.S. Army Colonel Hendry into the Hellfire Club, where she sees Schmidt (now called Sebastian Shaw) with mutant telepath Emma Frost, cyclone-producing Riptide, and teleporter Azazel. Threatened by Shaw and teleported to the Joint War Room, Hendry advocates deploying nuclear missiles in Turkey. Shaw, an energy-absorbing mutant whose powers have kept him young, later kills Hendry.  Moira, seeking Xavier's advice on mutation, takes him and Raven to the CIA, where they convince Director McCone that mutants exist and Shaw is a threat. Another CIA officer sponsors the mutants and invites them to the secret "Division X" facility. Moira and Xavier find Shaw as Erik is attacking him, and Xavier rescues Erik from drowning before Shaw escapes. Xavier brings Erik to Division X, where they meet Hank McCoy, a mutant scientist with prehensile feet. Xavier uses McCoy's mutant-locating device, Cerebro, to seek and recruit other mutants. Xavier and Erik recruits stripper Angel Salvadore, cabbie Armando Muñoz, Army prisoner Alex Summers, and drifter Sean Cassidy.  Xavier, Erik, and Moira leads a CIA mission to the Soviet Union to capture Frost and discover Shaw intends to start World War III, triggering mutant ascendency. Azazel, Riptide, and Shaw attack Division X, killing everyone but the mutants, whom Shaw invites to join him. Salvadore accepts; but when Alex and Muñoz retaliate, Shaw kills Muñoz. In Moscow, Shaw compels the general to have the USSR install missiles in Cuba. Wearing a helmet that blocks telepathy, Shaw follows the Soviet fleet in a submarine to ensure the missiles break a U.S. blockade. In the meantime, Xavier takes the remaining recruits back to his mansion where they focus on harnessing their abilities. McCoy believes Raven's DNA may provide a "cure" for their appearance and manages to get a cure ready, but Raven, after being persuaded by Erik, decides she doesn't want to hide her identity and refuses the cure. McCoy uses the cure on himself but it backfires, giving him blue fur and leonine aspects.  With McCoy piloting, the mutants and Moira take a jet to the blockade line, where Xavier uses his telepathy to influence a Soviet sailor to destroy the ship carrying the missiles, and Erik uses his magnetic power to lift Shaw's submarine from the water, depositing it on land. During the ensuing battle, Erik seizes Shaw's helmet, allowing Xavier to immobilize Shaw. While Shaw is helpless, Erik reveals he shares Shaw's exclusivist view of mutants, but desires to avenge his mother, so he uses his power to kill Shaw by  pushing a Nazi coin he's been carrying since childhood through Shaw's brain, killing him. Unable to risk releasing Shaw, Xavier begs Erik to stop, but is forced to experience Shaw's death.  Fearful of the mutants, both fleets fire at the mutants, which Erik intercepted. As Erik turns the arsenal back toward the fleet, Moira tries to stop Erik by shooting him, but he deflects the bullets, one of which hits Xavier in the spine. Erik rushes to help Xavier and, distracted, allows the artillery to fall harmlessly into the ocean. Parting with Xavier over their differing views on the relationship between mutants and humans, Erik leaves with Salvadore, Azazel, Riptide and Raven. Later, a wheelchair-using Xavier and his mutants returns to the mansion, where he intends to open a school. Moira promises Xavier never to reveal his location, but Xavier makes sure of this by wiping her memories. Meanwhile, Erik, now naming himself Magneto, and the other Hellfire Club members free Frost from her prison.