Hildy Good, once the most prosperous realtor in Wendover, has fallen on hard times following her divorce and family's insistence she go to rehab for alcoholism. Her former assistant, Wendy, also stole her clients while she was in rehab, adding to her problems. Hildy attempts to aid a local family with an autistic child sell their home, so they can move and enroll him in a special school by getting her former boyfriend, Frank, to renovate their home. She renews her relationship with Frank, but the home sale falls through, and she finds out her former clients yet again are stolen by Wendy.  Hildy befriends a woman, Rebecca, who she sold a house to her and her husband and is then drawn into her life. She discovers Rebecca and the local psychologist, Peter, are having an affair, but she promises she won't reveal their secret. Hildy continues to drink in solitude instead of in the open, justifying her drinking by saying she just needs to take the edge off and that she doesn't "need" to drink. Peter approaches her about selling his home, but says it's not set in stone and not to speak of it, Hildy assumes this means he will be asking for a divorce. Hildy decides not to drink anymore after one night when she is cornered in the cellar and drinks two bottles of wine. She avoids alcohol for quite a while, and then finds out that Peter is selling his home and using Wendy instead of her. She confronts him and says he will destroy her career if he gives this sale to Wendy, so she threatens him with the information she has about him and Rebecca. Hildy is able to sell his home, then uses that sale to snag the large estate the Santorelli brothers built in Wendover. She celebrates with them, taking her first sip of alcohol in a while, and then can't stop. She drives drunk to Frank's house, telling him they need to celebrate, and Frank takes her keys and offers to drive her home. She gets angry and refuses, saying she'd rather walk.  The next day, she is awakened by Frank, and he shows her the car in her driveway with a damaged front end; she had walked back to his house after getting the spare key and driven home. The autistic son of her friends is missing, and they fear the worst. Frank hides her car, then leaves to help with the search, while Hildy goes to the kitchen to take a drink when Peter walks in dripping wet. They have a conversation where he says the missing boy is fine, but she needs to get control. Suddenly, he disappears and Hildy hears her oldest daughter in the house, so they go to help with the search. The police find a body in the water, but it ends up being Peter, meaning Hildy had hallucinated her talk with him, and she collapses, begging for help. Jake, the autistic boy, is found safe by Rebecca and is led home. Hildy willingly goes into rehab this time and accepts that she does have a drinking problem, and the movie closes with her and Frank sailing on the boat he made for her when they were young.