Jack Frost awakens from a frozen pond with amnesia and realizes that no one can see or hear him. So it remains until 300 years later in present day, when the Man in the Moon warns Nicholas St. North that evil spirit Pitch Black has returned, threatening children with his nightmares. North summons E. Aster Bunnymund, the Sandman, and the Tooth Fairy to arms, and they are informed that Jack has been chosen to join them as a new Guardian. They haphazardly bring Jack to the North Pole, where North asks what Jack's center is: every Guardian has a center that they are the Guardian of. North's center, for example, is wonder, which he protects in children. Jack, however, does not know and is unwilling to be a Guardian.   Visiting Tooth's palace, Jack learns that every baby tooth contains the childhood memories of its owner, his teeth included, as every Guardian was human before they became a Guardian. Shocked to learn this, Jack wishes to find his tooth to recover his memories; however, Pitch kidnaps Tooth's subordinate fairies and steals all the teeth. This reduces children's belief in Tooth and weakens her. To thwart Pitch's plan, the group collects children's teeth themselves in place of the fairies. One of the children they visit includes Jamie, who wakes up from the noise. Since he still believes, he can see everybody except for Jack. Pitch's Nightmares attack the Guardians and Pitch kills Sandy.  As Easter approaches, the Guardians travel to Bunny's home next, determined not to let Pitch ruin Easter. Jack is lured to Pitch's lair, where he finds his teeth. Pitch confronts him, distracting him long enough for the Nightmares to destroy Bunny's eggs, ruining Easter and causing children to stop believing in Bunny. With the Guardians' trust in him lost, Jack flees to Antarctica. Pitch breaks Jack's magic staff and throws him down a chasm. Unlocking the memories inside his teeth, Jack learns that he was a human teenager who drowned trying to save his younger sister. Inspired, he repairs his staff and rescues the kidnapped fairies.  Due to Pitch, every child in the world has stopped believing except Jamie, drastically weakening the Guardians. Finding Jamie's belief wavering, Jack makes it snow in his room, causing Jamie to be the first person to believe in him. Jack realizes that his center is fun and uses it to gather Jamie's friends, play, and diminish their fear, leading to renewed belief that bolsters the Guardians and resurrects Sandy. The children's dreams prove stronger than the Nightmares, who turn on Pitch and drag him to the underworld. Jack finally accepts his place as the Guardian of Fun.