Part 1: A Brand New Outfit The Little Einsteins are on their daily patrol on Rocket, until they hear music coming from somewhere distant. After following the sound of the music, they reach a large wheat field. Hiding in a toadstool, shrouded in a column of shrubs is a Monarch Butterfly caterpillar. Seemingly enough, the caterpillar is excited, because she is going to change into a Monarch Butterfly at a tree known as the Musical Tree of Many Colors, a tree that harbors caterpillars that are entering their transformation state. Alongside other caterpillars, this caterpillar must go to this aforementioned tree via a green pickup truck. After a few instant, the truck hits a roadblock, causing the caterpillar to fall. The team then offers their help to the caterpillar, giving it a special seat on Rocket. Along the way they must traverse a Musical Roller Coaster, collect yellow leaves to feed the caterpillar along the road, and venture through a dangerous ocean. After reaching the musical tree of many colors, the caterpillar manages to merge into a grown Monarch Butterfly, much to everyone's delight.  Part 2: The Missing Invitation Right after the butterfly's transformation, the team gets 4 invitations to a migration party of a dynasty of Monarch Butterflies in Mexico. Unfortunately, the newly created butterfly's invitation is missing somewhere, much to the team's dismay but also to the delight of some bullies that did get their invitations and teased the newborn butterfly. Once again, it's up to the quartet to go forth and find the invitation to the party before it begins. After a risky adventure across the United States, the team reaches a cave in Oklahoma which may be a possible lead to the invitation, however, much to everyone’s horror, the cave is flooded in bats and arachnids, after giving chase to a horde of bats, two monarch butterflies are found ensnared inside a spider web, which turns out to be a Great King Spider's dinner. It also turns out that the two butterflies knew the one with the team. After untangling them, the apex spider gives chase, along with another horde of bloodthirsty bats. Fortunately, the crew and the butterflies manage to escape the cavern unharmed. Finally, after looking around some more, the invitation is found, burrowed within an abandoned mailbox in a field of cows in Houston, Texas. Grateful, the team flies to Mexico for the party. After presenting their invitations, the two other butterflies saved in the cavern recognize the team’s butterfly, and honor it by giving it a medal for its audacity and the perseverance to strive for its family's wellbeing and legacy. Once again, the day is saved by the heroes, and the butterfly is able to reunite, unharmed and safe with its new family.