A cave research team unearths an unknown species of pterosaur-like creature, referred to as "vesps", from a mine. The vesps violently kill the researchers, fly out of the mine, and seek the noisiest areas.  Ally Andrews, a teenage girl who lost her hearing in a car accident, lives with her  parents Hugh and Kelly Andrews, her maternal grandmother Lynn, who has terminal lung cancer, her brother Jude, and their pet dog, Otis. As news of the vesp outbreak spreads, the U.S. government declares a state of emergency and asks people to stay indoors and quiet. Hugh recommended the family to put their cellphones on silent mode, and, they see four videos, one showing two victims running, the second one showing a mother and her child in a car. The child has her mouth taped,  and the mother shows a note written, "Don't make noise". The third one shows the cave research team screaming, and it cuts to another shot of the  vesps fleeing, shortly before getting interrupted by an emergency broadcast. Ally suggests they head to the countryside, which is likely to be quieter. Glenn, Hugh's best friend, joins them and brings his guns. They set out in two cars, but a man tries to hijack Hugh's car, risking the family. Glenn shoots the man in the leg, and they drive away.  The group hits a massive traffic jam, blocking all the interstates, and Glenn goes off-road. Speeding through the countryside, Glenn's car hits a herd of fleeing deer and tumbles down the embankment. He survives but is trapped in the car. Hugh and Kelly fail to free him, and Glenn asks Hugh to leave. As the Andrews family returns to their car, their dog barks, attracting the vesps. Glenn fires his gun, leading them away from the Andrews and sacrificing himself. To keep his family safe, Hugh is forced to let their dog out of the car to die.  Hugh leads his family on foot after setting Glenn's car on fire as a decoy. Lynn struggles to keep up, and her coughing puts the family at risk. The family finds a house with a high fence and locked gate. The homeowner, unaware of the situation, comes out and speaks and the vesps rip her apart. The family uses a storm drain to enter the house. A rattlesnake appears in front of Jude, attracting the vesps with its rattle they proceed to attack it. The attracted vesps bite Kelly's leg from behind. Hugh distracts them by turning on a woodchipper, crushing the vesps flying into it, and the family enters the house.  Ally contacts her boyfriend, Rob, who tells her his parents are dead. She learns that religious cults have sprung up in the wake of the disaster. By morning, Kelly's wound is infected, so Hugh and Ally leave to find antibiotics. At the store, Ally discovers vesp eggs growing inside corpses. The tongueless reverend of a cult tries to recruit them, but Hugh and Ally leave. They return with the antibiotics and Kelly recovers. Ally learns from the internet that vesps cannot survive in the cold, prompting the family in planning to head to the north.  The reverend finds the family's hide-out and shows up with his followers, revealing that he intends to recruit Ally. Hugh brings out his gun, forcing the cultists to leave. Rob lets Ally know he is headed north to "the refuge". Hugh and Kelly find a little girl at the door in the middle of the night. After letting her in, they find she is a member of the tongueless cult. Phones strapped to her and placed around the house go off, attracting vesps. The cult members abduct Ally but Grandma Lynn runs outside to help her. Lynn holds Ally's captors down and screams; vesps kill her and the captors while Ally escapes. The family fights back and kills most of the cult, including the reverend.  Weeks later, the family treks across the U.S. and arrives at the refuge. Ally finds Rob and they hunt the vesps with arrows. Ally wonders whether the vesps will adapt to the cold and whether humans will adapt to a soundless lifestyle, like she did when she lost her hearing.