A team of Angels including Jane and Sabina, led by senior operative John Bosley, capture international embezzler Jonny Smith in Rio de Janeiro and turn him over to American authorities.  A year later, the European division of the Townsend Agency is informed that Elena Houghlin, an engineer and programmer employed by entrepreneur Alexander Brok, wants to expose her superiors. She knows that Brok's head of development, Peter Fleming, is covering up a flaw in an energy conservation device that she helped invent, Calisto. It has the potential to trigger fatal seizures when used.  Elena meets with operative Edgar "Bosley" in Hamburg to turn over her findings, but the assassin Hodak ambushes the meeting. After a subsequent car chase in which Edgar is shot dead before the car is flipped into the river, the assassin leaves Elena to drown. Edgar's protégé, Jane Kano, is also in the car. She rescues her and brings her to operative Rebekah "Bosley" with the help of her partner, Sabina Wilson. Meanwhile, John, who has since retired from the agency, discovers that Rebekah has tagged him with the agency's specialized subdermal implant tracking device without his knowledge.  Rebekah tasks Sabina and Jane, joined by Elena, with breaking into Brok's corporate headquarters to steal the remaining Calisto prototypes before they can be duplicated. Elena finds one but is forced to use it to escape, accidentally killing the chief of security, Ralph, in the process.  After learning that Fleming took the other prototypes, Rebekah tracks him to Istanbul, where Jane utilizes one of her old intelligence contacts, Fatima, to locate him. They first seek him at a horse racetrack, where he doesn't seem to find a buyer.  Later, they track him to a remote rock quarry, where the supposedly imprisoned Smith is revealed to be Fleming's intermediary for selling Calisto. Hodak is also present and kills Fleming before the Angels break up the sale. Rebekah suddenly disappears, allowing Smith and Hodak to escape with the prototypes.  Returning to their safehouse, Sabina shares her growing belief that Rebekah is secretly working against the agency and manipulating them to steal Calisto for her own benefit. While the three ponder Sabina's suspicion, the safehouse is bombed. Rebekah shows up only to be shot by John, who has come to 'rescue' Elena.  Sabina and Jane manage to survive and seek medical help from Fatima. Rebekah reappears and explains that John is the real traitor and that he has spent the last few decades secretly building his own network within the agency after he was passed over to succeed the late Charlie Townsend.  John takes Elena to a party in Chamonix hosted by Brok, who reveals himself as the mastermind behind the attempt to assassinate Elena and, unbeknownst to him, John's plan to weaponize Calisto. Using Elena's colleague Langston as a hostage, John forces her to program a Calisto device to kill both herself and Langston before leaving.  The Angels deduced his plan due to the information provided by Smith, who has defected to their side. So, they show up and rescue Elena and Langston, although Elena had already disabled the Calisto device. Jane exacts revenge by impaling Hodak on a spike, while Rebekah catches up with John and his men. Outnumbered, she has numerous other Angels posing as guests subdue the men, after which Sabina knocks out John with a punch.  Brok is arrested for conspiracy, and Jane and Langston start a relationship. Elena is recruited as an Angel by the Townsend Agency after passing a series of rigorous training exercises.  In a mid-credits scene, Elena receives an official Angels tattoo and congratulations from former Angel Kelly Garrett (Jaclyn Smith), who has become the new "Charlie".