Hotel heiress Sierra Belmont has been newly appointed as "vice president of atmosphere" at the luxury ski resort in Aspen owned by her father, Beauregard, despite having no interest in the business. While her father is away on business, Sierra goes up a mountain top with her influencer boyfriend Tad for a photo shoot where he proposes to her. However, the harsh wind causes Sierra, who was wearing skis, to lose balance. Sierra falls from the top of the mountain, is separated from Tad and hits her head on a tree. Unconscious, Sierra is found by Jake Russell, who she bumped into earlier just after his failed business pitch to her father, and is taken to a hospital. Sierra loses her memory due to the accident and the hospital staff is unable to verify her identify.  Jake offers the amnesiac Sierra a place at his bed and breakfast hotel, the Northstar Lodge, until she can remember who she is or someone comes to claim her. After taking the name Sarah from a stuffed toy that belongs to Jake's daughter Avy, Sierra decides to help him and his family at the lodge in hopes of getting her memory back, but struggles. However, Sierra bonds with Jake and his family, especially Avy, as she finds out that she lost her mother a couple years ago and feels sympathy for her, due to losing her own when she was younger and starts to trigger memories. After improving in helping the lodge, Sierra adjusts to a normal life. As the hotel is struggling, Sierra comes up with a party to raise funds for the hotel.  Meanwhile, Tad is lost in the woods and finds shelter with recluse Ralph, who takes him to town on foot. At the Belmont, the hotel staff don't think to look for Sierra and Tad as they believe that they are away on a trip. After four days, Beauregard returns from his trip where he finds out that Sierra is missing and informs the Sheriff, who has just retrieved Tad and Ralph. At the party, the town comes together to support the Northstar Lodge, which is declared a historic site. Before Jake can thank Sierra, Tad and her father rush in to take her home, restoring her memory. On Christmas Day, Sierra does her own chores, much to the staff and Tad's surprise.  Sierra decides she will do things for herself going forward and resigns from the position her father created for her realizing the hotel business is not for her. Meanwhile, Avy reveals to Jake that her wish was for him to find love and convinces him to seek out Sierra. Realizing that she fell in love with Jake, Sierra breaks off her engagement with Tad and, shortly after, Jake confesses his love to her. Sierra also decides to go back and help Jake run the Northstar Lodge, especially when she finds out that it is sold out for the season after she publicly thanked them at a press conference. Beauregard believes he owes Jake a debt of gratitude for finding Sierra and so decides to invest in the Northstar Lodge. They end with a very happy Christmas all together.