In 1961, the Bay of Pigs invasion ends disastrously. Senior CIA officer Edward Wilson is warned there are suspicions of a mole in his department. Returning home, he finds a photograph of a man and woman in bed, and audio tapes that have been tampered with, leaving certain details  unclear.  In 1939, while attending Yale, Edward is invited to join the Skull and Bones fraternity. During his initiation, he reveals there that he once discovered but never read the suicide note left by his father, Thomas, an admiral who had been pegged to serve as Secretary of the Navy until his loyalties were questioned. FBI agent Sam Murach recruits Edward to investigate his poetry professor Frederick's ties as a Nazi sympathizer, which once exposed led  to Fredericks' resignation. Edward begins dating a fellow Yale student named Laura, who is hearing impaired. After an announcement that World War II has begun, Laura asks Edward to sleep with her, but panics at the last moment.  In 1940, Edward attends a party and meets Margaret “Clover” Russell, sister of fellow Bonesman John. He is also introduced to General Bill Sullivan, who tells him the US will soon be compelled to enter the war and offers Edward a job in foreign intelligence. Clover, whose father is a Senator and head of the isolationist America First Committee, is attracted to Edward and he eventually succumbs to Clover's aggressive advances.  While on a date with Laura at the beach, Edward is approached by John, who tells him Clover is pregnant and insinuates that Edward is obligated to marry her. Laura, reading their lips, walks away. On Edward and Clover's wedding day, he is presented with orders to leave for London. There he is reunited with Dr. Fredericks, in reality a British intelligence operative who had recommended Edward for counter-espionage training. Special Operations Executive officer Arch Cummings informs Edward that Fredericks' indiscreet liaisons pose a security risk. Fredericks refuses to retire quietly and is killed.  In post-war Berlin, Edward collaborates with Soviet counterpart "Ulysses" in the exchange of captured scientists. During a call home, his son Edward Jr. inadvertently reveals that Clover is having an affair. Edward impulsively sleeps with his office's interpreter Hanna Schiller, but discovers she is a Soviet operative, leading to her murder. In 1946, Edward returns home to a distant Clover, who now goes by her birth name Margaret; they both admit to having had affairs, and she reveals that John was killed in the war. Edward is again approached by General Sullivan, this time to help create the CIA with colleague Richard Hayes, with Phillip Allen as director.  While Edward feels genuine affection for his son, Margaret grows increasingly disenchanted as he continually prioritizes work over family. While monitoring Soviet activity in Central America, Edward receives an agent’s severed finger, after the CIA unleashed locusts on a Soviet-fronted coffee company. A high-ranking KGB defector, Valentin Mironov, presents information about "Ulysses" and warns Edward he expects other men claiming to be him to seek asylum. While attending a play with Mironov, Edward encounters Laura. They begin an affair, which ends when Margaret receives compromising photographs of them and publicly berates Edward. Another Soviet defector claims to be the real Mironov, accusing the first defector of being a double-agent named Yuri Modin. Tortured and administered liquid LSD, he ridicules his interrogators before hurling himself out of a window. The first Mironov offers to take LSD to prove his innocence, but Edward declines.  Edward Jr. follows his father's footsteps in attending Yale and joining Skull and Bones. He then expresses interest in working for the CIA, to Edward's surprise. During an argument about this, Edward admits that he does not love Margaret and only married her because she became pregnant. Margaret begs him to protect their son, which he promises to do.  US relations with Cuba worsen as Castro comes to power. During another party, Edward Jr. overhears his father, Hayes, and Allen discussing the upcoming Bay of Pigs invasion. Edward realizes his son has heard and reminds him of the extreme importance to remain silent. Margaret tells Edward she is leaving him.  In 1961, extensive analysis of the tape recording leads CIA analysts to suspect the photograph was taken in Léopoldville. Traveling there himself, Edward finds an apartment being rented by his son and realizes he is the man on the tape. "Ulysses" appears and plays an un-edited recording where Edward Jr. reveals the operation to his lover Miriam, who is a Soviet operative. "Ulysses" offers to protect Edward Jr. if Edward will become a double agent. Edward confronts his son, who refuses to believe Miriam is a spy and has asked her to marry him.  Edward discovers evidence that Mironov really is a double agent, and Arch Cummings his co-conspirator. Cummings flees to Moscow, while "Mironov" is arrested by the FBI and deported to almost certain death. Edward meets with "Ulysses" a final time and declines his offer, but implicitly agrees that Miriam, who has genuinely fallen in love with Edward Jr., is a threat to both sides. While flying from her hometown to the church, Miriam is thrown out of the plane. Edward informs his son of Miriam's death and denies all responsibility, but is shaken to learn Miriam was pregnant.  Edward meets Hayes at the new CIA headquarters, noting the lobby’s Biblical inscription: "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free (John 8:32)." Philip Allen, whom Murach discovered has been embezzling money for years, is resigning in disgrace, and the President has named Hayes the new Director. Hayes appoints Edward to be the First Head of counter-intelligence.  Edward decides to finally read his father’s suicide note, which reveals that Thomas was a traitor as suspected. In the note, Thomas begs his family's forgiveness and urges his son to live a life of decency and truth. Edward burns the note. The film ends as Edward prepares to move into his offices in the new counter-intelligence wing.