On the morning of the 2014 NFL Draft, Cleveland Browns general manager Sonny Weaver, Jr. faces a difficult decision. With the seventh overall pick, he must choose the best way to improve the team alongside handling his domestic issues. Ali Parker, the team's salary cap analyst is pregnant with his child, while the recent death of Sonny's father has caused tension between him and his mother. Sonny had fired his father, a legendary coach under his mother's wishes due to his failing health, taking sole criticism for the decision.  Tom Michaels, General Manager of the Seattle Seahawks offers to trade their first overall draft pick to the Browns for their first round pick in the current draft and the next year, along with a third-round pick the year after. Sonny initially declines but is then mandated by the Browns' Owner to make a high profile move with hopes of exciting the fan base and selling tickets. With the trade, the Browns would acquire the projected first overall pick, highly-rated Wisconsin quarterback Bo Callahan. During the renegotiation, Michaels strong arms Sonny into three consecutive first round picks. Sonny agrees to the deal without consulting the team, causing a rift in the Browns' war room. Cleveland's coach, Vince Penn is strongly behind current Cleveland quarterback Bryan Drew. Penn also prefers the Browns draft Florida State running back Ray Jennings, whose father played for the Browns.  When Ohio State linebacker Vontae Mack receives the news that the Browns have the first pick, he goes on Twitter to lambast the Browns for moving up to take Callahan. During a conversation with Sonny, he tells Sonny to watch the game tape from last year's Wisconsin-Ohio State game, where Mack had sacked Callahan four times. Sonny begins to have doubts about Callahan's ability to perform under pressure, and the Browns' investigations into Callahan's character further fuel these doubts. Offers are made by other teams to get Cleveland to trade out of the first pick, but Weaver sticks with his decision to stay at #1.  When the draft begins that evening, Sonny remains uncertain of the best choice for the team's future. After much deliberation, Sonny drafts Vontae Mack, sparking the entire stadium and sending shockwaves across the league. Many of the other teams had placed Vontae very low in their ratings and now realise their plans must be hastily changed in order to keep up with the unpredictable atmosphere. This causes a great deal of unrest and anger, the most vocal coming from team owner Molina. Livid with Sonny's decision, he flies back to Cleveland immediately intent on firing him from his position. Head coach Vince Penn shares in his anger and disgust, and threatens to resign himself.   When Callahan is not picked first, other teams go with their prospective picks, opening up the possibility that Callahan could fall to Seattle at #7, allowing the Seahawks to draft him and come away with the two extra picks that Cleveland traded to them.  Sonny contacts the Jacksonville Jaguars, who are picking sixth, and trades for that pick in exchange for the Browns' second-round draft picks over the course of the next three years. On the clock with the #6 pick, Sonny threatens to take Callahan, knowing that Michaels is feeling heat from Seahawk fans who were upset that they had lost their chance to take Callahan.  Sonny finally convinces the Seahawks to exchange picks with Cleveland so that Seattle can get Callahan and the Browns can get all their first round picks back, plus a punt returner. Seattle selects Callahan, at which point the Browns, picking back at the seventh pick that they started the draft with, select Jennings. Through a series of bold moves, Sonny demonstrates his savvy in the NFL draft and reinforces his commitment to the team and the fans. The 2014 season is sure to be an exciting one for the Browns.  At the end of the night, the Browns host a draft party introducing Mack and Jennings. After the celebration, Sonny quickly made his way to reconnect with his mother. Already thrilled for her son's success in the draft, she is even more ecstatic due to her soon-to-be first grandchild. Later, Sonny and Ali celebrate with Browns legends Jim Brown and Bernie Kosar in the luxury boxes on Opening Day as Sonny finally gets to see the team that he built take the field in Cleveland.