Andrew (Jase Blankfort) and his older brother Carl (Trey Rogers) enjoy listening to ghost stories that the local undertaker, Mr. Bennett (Frank Langella), tells them. One night Bennett tells the tale of a local farmer whose wife gave birth to conjoined twins, one being good-natured while the other was clearly evil. The farmer, ashamed of them, kept the twins locked in their room. Eventually the twins got sick from a liver disease and died together, so the farmer sawed them in half and buried the good twin in a cemetery and the bad twin in a shallow grave near the house, at the end of an old dirt road called Cry Baby Lane, as whoever is caught out there at night will hear the cries of the deceased twin. Later, Andrew, Carl and a group of friends decide to hold a séance in the cemetery where the good twin is supposedly buried, but during the séance, a weed is cut near the grave and a creepy phenomenon occurs around the town soon afterwards. When Andrew consults Mr. Bennett about it, he confesses that when the twins were separated, the bodies were mixed up, with the good one being buried in the field and the bad one being buried in the grave where the séance took place, and that he knows this because he was the undertaker who separated the bodies. Therefore, the good twin is crying for help - not vengeance, and the bad twin possesses nearly everyone in town, and it is up to Andrew to stop him. Bennett's assistant Gary informs him of a legend, which he himself believes is just superstition, that weeds near people's graves in fact contain their souls, which are then set free if the weed is cut.  However, during the time Andrew and Carl journey into Cry Baby Lane, the evil twin intervenes and possesses Carl who then tries to attack his brother. The evil twin, speaking for Carl, tells Andrew he cannot stop his doing as the cries of the good twin become louder and more desperate. Andrew eventually escapes the evil twin's spell and journeys into the good twin's grave where he must cut a root that was wrapped the good twin's skeleton in order to regain peace. The evil twin showers dirt onto the grave, attempting to bury Andrew alive, but Andrew manages to cut the root and save the good twin. The evil twin disappears in a flash of light and everybody returns to normal.  The next day, Andrew wakes up outside of the grave where he finds the good twin's grave with flowers, alluding that the twin is now at peace. Andrew then picks a flower from the grave and gives it to Kathy as they leave Cry Baby Lane.