The Duncan family prepares to visit Amy's parents in Palm Springs for Christmas. Teddy asks Amy for permission to travel with her best friend Ivy to Florida for spring break, but she refuses to let Teddy travel alone. At the airport, Bob tells Teddy that if she can purchase her own plane ticket, she can go to Florida.  On the plane, a flight attendant announces that the flight has been overbooked and asks anyone to relinquish their seat in exchange for a free ticket. Seeing this as an opportunity to go to Florida, Teddy volunteers. Amy also departs the plane to follow her. Amy and Teddy learn from a check-in desk woman that the next flight to Palm Springs is in three days, which is after Christmas. A frustrated Amy gets into a violent confrontation with the woman and is escorted out by security, along with Teddy. Teddy suggests that they take the bus to Palm Springs.  When the rest of the family arrives in Palm Springs, Bob faces constant criticism from Amy's disapproving mother Petunia, Charlie breaks several items in the house, PJ gets a severe sunburn after accidentally using suntan oil instead of sunblock, and Gabe teaches Amy's father Hank how to play his favorite video game Galaxy of Death, only for Hank to develop an addiction to it. While on the bus, Amy suffers from motion sickness and hogs the bathroom, resulting in her and Teddy getting kicked off the bus.  Stranded and desperate, Teddy and Amy rent a worn-out Yugo, which they end up destroying. While the car is taken to a scrapyard, Teddy suggests they hitchhike, much to Amy's chagrin. They meet an elderly couple and hitch a ride in their minivan, whereupon the woman remarks that Amy is exhibiting pregnancy symptoms.  When they arrive in Las Vegas, Amy explains to a shocked Teddy that she and Bob planned on announcing her pregnancy to the whole family on Christmas. They then discover that their luggage has been stolen. After getting a call from Amy, Bob drives to Las Vegas along with PJ and Gabe to retrieve them. Teddy and Amy get into another argument, culminating in Amy angrily accusing Teddy of ruining Christmas. Teddy disowns Amy as her mother and tearfully storms off. In order to earn money to afford dinner, the two do a street performance involving Christmas carols mixed with staged fights.  Over dinner, Amy explains that she didn't want Teddy to go to Florida because she fears Teddy is growing up too fast. Teddy apologizes for disembarking the plane, but Amy assures her Christmas isn't ruined. They later encounter Jordan, the girl who had stolen their luggage. Jordan tearfully explains that she has become stranded after running away from home to go to a cross-country music festival that her mother forbade her from attending. Sympathizing with Jordan, Amy calls Jordan's mother and helps them reconcile, and Teddy gives Jordan her plane ticket to help her get back home for Christmas. Amy finally acknowledges that Teddy is responsible.  While driving through a desert, PJ, Gabe, and Bob are mistakenly kidnapped by a team of paintball participants. Understanding the situation, Gabe explains that Chuck Jablowsky, the creator of Galaxy of Death, holds a paintball tournament every Christmas Eve. After freeing themselves, Gabe convinces PJ and Bob to participate in the tournament. Using his knowledge of the game, Gabe wins the match and even meets Jablowsky himself. Jablowsky offers the trio a free helicopter ride to find Teddy and Amy, whom they locate at a diner.  Hank and Petunia arrive with Charlie by car, having gone looking for the boys after they didn't return. With the entire family finally reunited, Petunia reveals that she found a star-shaped tree topper, which Amy lost earlier in the film, stuck between Charlie's car seat mechanism. Amy admits that this was the best Christmas she has ever had before announcing that she is having another baby, much to the excitement of her parents and the Duncans.  On the way home, the flight is once again overbooked and a free ticket is offered to whoever gives up their seat, which Teddy quickly accepts once more. Amy tells Bob to go after Teddy. He obediently does so, jokingly promising Amy that they will be back by New Year's Day. Amy smiles and says that she knows they won't.