Phil (Justin Kirk) and Sandy Mason (Jennifer Garner) have moved to Palos Verdes, with their teenage twins, Medina (Maika Monroe) and Jim (Cody Fern). Phil and Sandy seem to think only about themselves. Sandy seems very different from Phil, who enjoys going out to parties and traveling, where Sandy likes to stay inside wrapped in a pink bath robe.  Sandy's mood swings and inability to adjust to her new surroundings make her paranoid and difficult to handle. She suspects Phil of having an affair, due to him lying about working late and the smell of Chanel perfume in his car. A short while later Phil tells Medina while running on the beach that he wishes to move away because he has found love with Ava (Alicia Silverstone), the real estate agent he bought their home from.  He asks Medina to back him when he tells Sandy about it, but Medina says nothing and runs back home. Sandy fights with Phil when he tells her he plans to leave, and says she will be moving out and Jim agrees to go with her. When confronted by Phil, Jim voices his disgust about his father's behavior. In the heat of the moment, Phil slaps Jim who in turn punches his father.  Phil moves out to live with Ava, while Sandy uses Phil's money to buy lavish furniture for the house, and purposely runs up the electric bill for fun. Medina finds some solace in surfing, which she has come to love. Jim, however, does not handle the separation well, and feeling alienated and hated by his father, turns to drugs and drinking. Medina goes to dinner with her father and Ava, meeting Ava's son Adrian (Noah Silver), who is soon leaving for college.  Jim decides to stay home with Sandy instead of going with Medina to the dinner. Jim progressively seems more attached to drugs throughout and lands himself in the hospital. Phil comes to see him and Jim is happy, asking to go on the trip to Paris his father was planning to take. Phil says it's more of a work trip and Ava's first time going, but next time for sure, seeing as how it might make their mother upset.  Jim is visibly put off by Phil's rejection of him. Medina spends time with Adrian and they spend the night together. When Adrian drives her home in the morning, Jim comes out and starts beating on his car. Medina sends Adrian away and Jim cries to her that he thought she had run away for good, and begs her not to leave him all alone. Medina, worried, calls her father in Paris and is caught by Sandy. Sandy is convinced that Jim is perfectly fine and that she is taking care of him, to which Medina disagrees.  She points out that her mother treats Jim more like a husband than a son. Medina decides that she and Jim need to run away together. Adrian gives her the money her father keeps hidden, and she goes home to pick up Jim, who is once again under the influence of drugs. Before they can leave, Jim says that Sandy is right, and he should burn the house down.  He lights a flare and throws it into a bush in the front yard. Medina runs inside for her mother, as Jim lights another flare and runs down the road. Jim is found by the police and taken to the hospital, where it is revealed he may have suffered a psychotic break, due to the stresses at home and a combination of drugs. Medina says that she and Jim will still go away together when he gets out.  Medina's intro from the movie plays over again, and she tells of the machines that clean the sand. She says that one found Jim passed out on the beach, and that his heart just stopped beating, because of a combination of prescription drugs he had stolen. His body is cremated, and the family gathers at the beach as a unit. Sandy runs into the water and dumps his ashes in, crying out. She hugs Medina and tells her she's sorry over and over. Medina says in a voiceover that her father would like her to come and live with him, and that her mother is getting help and would also like her to come. She says she will do neither, and she will travel without a plan, to surf and see the world, like she and Jim had said they would do.