A law enforcement officer and a civilian, possibly a psychologist, are trying to interview thirteen-year-old Becky Hopper regarding an event that recently took place at her family's house. Even though the audience sees her having flashbacks of the event, Becky only gives vague answers and pretends not to remember anything apart from some insignificant minor details.  Two weeks earlier, Becky was a bullied high school student whose mother died a year earlier. She has a strained relationship with her father Jeff, who attempts to reconnect with her on a trip to her mother's old lakefront home. Meanwhile, prisoner Dominick Lewis, a Neo-Nazi, and his men Wallace "Apex" Landham, Sonny Cole, and Roman Hammond are being transferred in a prison van. Dominick has an inmate killed to get the guards to pull over, using the opportunity to kill them and pose as policemen. They stop a man and his two children on the street, kill them, and steal their car.  Jeff's girlfriend Kayla and her young son Ty arrive at the house, upsetting Becky. Jeff announces that he and Kayla are engaged. Hurt, believing her mother would have hated her, and possibly out of resentment because her father is moving on, Becky runs out of the house, followed by her Cane Corso dog, Diego. At her small fort in the woods, she accidentally knocks over a box of old possessions: a Canadian coin, a bird skull and a key whose bow is formed in the shape of a valknut. Dominick and his men show up at the house, take everyone hostage, and demand the key. Kayla and Ty try to escape but are caught by Apex, who tries to help them, while Cole kills Dora, the family's other dog. Jeff lies about Becky's presence to protect her, but Dominick catches on and shoots Kayla in the leg to get the truth out of them.  Becky, still in the woods, becomes aware of the assailants' presence and talks over a walkie-talkie, pretending to call the police. Dominick calls her bluff, brings Jeff outside to the family's firepit and begins to torture him to lure Becky out. Becky relents and says she will give him the key. Dominick allows her father to talk through the talkie, but Jeff tells Becky to run. Jeff breaks free and finds Becky, telling her he loves her, before Dominick shoots him dead. Dominick demands the key, but Becky gouges out his left eye with it before fleeing with Diego.  Dominick goes back into the house to cut off the dangling eye and sends Cole and Hammond out to retrieve the key. Cole finds and chases Becky back to her fort. Cole tries to negotiate with Becky, but she surprises him and stabs him repeatedly with colored pencils and a sharp ruler killing him.  Apex shows Kayla and Ty compassion, and Dominick tries to have Apex reaffirm his loyalty to him. After finding Cole's corpse, Hammond chases Becky down to the lake, where she makes him trip and land on a wooden plank of nails. Hammond falls in the lake, and Becky uses a nearby boat motor to shred Hammond's chest. She is found by Apex, who momentarily incapacitates Diego. Not wanting to hurt Becky, Apex urges her to flee.  Becky makes her presence known to Kayla and Ty; Kayla tries to distract Dominick by asking him about the key's purpose. Becky sets off the car alarm to lure Dominick out, while Kayla tries to free herself. Apex fends off Dominick long enough for Becky to run a lawnmover over Dominick's head, and then shoots the apologetic Apex dead. Kayla and Ty come out with Diego and sit beside Becky as they wait for the police. In the present, Becky claims she does not remember the gang's deaths, with a cold look on her face, one hand nonchalantly playing with the key dangling from a ribbon around her neck.