Violet, a shy teenager living in a small village on the Isle of Wight, dreams of pop stardom as an escape from her dismal surroundings and shattered family life. Behind her mother's back she sings in a near-empty bar. Afterward an older man, Vlad, approaches her to say she was good. He says he used to be an opera singer in Croatia. Violet doesn't trust him and says she is 21 to discourage his interest.  Later, Violet enters a UK singing competition and doesn't tell her mother as she thinks Violet should only sing in church. Violet tries out for Teen Spirit UK alongside many classmates and reaches the next day auditions. She tells the organiser she is 17 and the woman says she'll need to bring a parent or guardian with her tomorrow to give permission for her participation in the competition. She can't ask her family, so she asks Vlad for help and explains she lied about her age to him. He says he'll help but if she wins he will be her manager and take 50% of her earnings. At the next round she is told she is invited back but must work on her performance and breathing. Vlad says he will train her and they tell her mother.  Her mother is suspicious of Vlad, asking 'what will you get out of it?' He says 50% if she succeeds as a singer. The mother says only 15%, that is what managers get. He agrees. In the next round she comes second and returns home, so does not make the London final.  Her mother sells her horse to cover debts. Violet is pursued by a boy from school, Luke, who is in a band. Then she hears that the heat winner gave a false name and had entered the competition in a previous year, so has been disqualified. Violet starts singing with Luke's band. Vlad brings Violet's mother flowers. The church says prayers for Violet. They all go to London for the final.  In the hotel the night before the event a woman called Jules offers Violet a record contract - but it must be signed before the final. Vlad is suspicious and says he must read it first. He sees that if Violet signs it, he will be removed from working with her. Violet dresses up to socialise and goes to meet her band friends in a club... She ends up drinking and making out with Keyan, last year's winner, who she met earlier in Jules' room.  Her band mates see she is drunk and try to take Violet back to the hotel. Vlad storms in and carries her out of the club. Violet is angry and says she will sign the contract. Vlad walks off saying he is getting a drink.  Next morning Violet realises she has lost the gold crucifix her mother gave her. Vlad wakes up on a park bench but returns to the hotel. Jules gives Violet her crucifix back. The competition proceeds with an ensemble song from all the finalists, and Violet worries about Vlad. Eventually, Vlad shows up and Violet says she didn't sign the contract. They reconcile before Violet appears on stage for her song.  She gives it her all using the training Vlad gave her and a much bigger dance style. Her backing band congratulates her, her mother rings to say she is proud, and Vlad tells her she 'did it!' And she was 'so good'.  Vlad gets a train to Paris to meet his estranged daughter. We see Violet on a train with the winner's trophy beside her.