Jessie a florist gets dumped mid-parachute jump, she ends up dropping her ex-boyfriend into a lake next to a wedding, which she ends up crashing into, unable to control her parachute. Jessie goes viral and is dubbed "the wedding trasher". Jessie is later unexpectedly hired to be a wedding planner by the modern fiancé Liz of Robert, a man who is running for mayor, and create a fun party atmosphere for the reception.   The Bride Liz and groom Robert have conflicting ideas on the wedding-the bride wants a modern wedding with a band and a party, the groom wants a traditional wedding with a string quartet. The groom ends up hiring equally perfectionist and demanding wedding planner Lawrence Phillips, who Jessie crashed into with her electric scooter. The two wedding planners start to butt heads with their different views.  Lawrence Phillips, a perfectionist OCD planner who gets set up on an impromptu blind date with a woman who is actually blind. Lawerence is a widower who hasn’t been on a date in 5 years and has become grumpy and bitter, unable to laugh. Sarah the blind women opens Lawrence to new things although he keeps messing up -he tries very hard even putting a blindfold on to experience life as she does. Lawrence starts to become happy and even nice.   Robert, the Mayoral candidate and groom’s brother Jimmy is the polar opposite of his brother. Jimmy is a gambler and in a large amount of debt with some dangerous people. Jimmy goes on a tv show called Crash couples to win money and ends up being chained together with a stripper called Olga for 24 hours while being filmed who is also trying to win money to get away from her life. Robert supports his brother on the tv show and still wants him in the wedding although he doesn’t understand why he didn’t tel him about the debt.  Jimmy and Olga ending up winning the crash couple competition with some help from Olga’s Marfia connections who have become their business partners.   Robert’s chief of staff doesn’t agree with the wedding and wants a more traditional something that can go on the press for Robert to go up in points in the press even following Ritchie to meet his Cinderella on tv unfortunately she doesn’t show as he helped Robert get out of traffic and to his wedding his invited to the wedding where he bumps in to his Cinderella.   High school friends Mack and Lenny are in a band together and start have tension with each other when Lenny gets a girlfriend Yoni. Jessie tries to hire them and arm wrestles Mack to get them to play at Liz and Robert Wedding.  Mack and Lenny end up agreeing to do the wedding. However things go down hill when Lenny invites his girlfriend Yoni to play with the band and they secretly make a demo without telling Mack. The band breaks up so Jessie asks the buskers in the park across the street to help. Mack asks Jessie out she says no at first but they start to develop feelings for each other.   A local tour guide Captain Ritchie ends up on tv for his funny and original tours. Ritchie searches for his "Cinderella" a woman who had a tattoo of a glass slipper on her neck. Ritchie never saw again after meeting her on a tour.  Throughout the whole movie two buskers start gradually playing together.