A wealthy CEO and his wife come to their vacation home only to discover a burglar. The CEO agrees to give him money and forget about the ordeal without calling the police, but the burglar locks them in a sauna.   Returning to his car, the burglar spots a camera recording him. He returns to the house and confronts them. He now asks for $500,000 in cash. The CEO calls his assistant, who tells him that the money will arrive the following afternoon.  Several conversations between the trio make it clear that the CEO and his wife are in a strained relationship, although the CEO looks forward to having children. At night, the wife tells the burglar that she is not happy with her life; the burglar tells her to stop calling herself a victim for marrying a man for his wealth.   The next day, the CEO guesses the burglar was an employee made redundant by the algorithm he has invented, which aids companies undergoing downsizing. A gardener arrives to work on the house. He takes them outside and talks to the CEO about planting an oak tree. The CEO writes the gardener 'Call 911' on his sketch of the garden. The burglar takes notice and orders the gardener to enter the house. His wife and the burglar criticize the CEO for jeopardizing another person's life.  After a few hours, the CEO finally breaks. He belittles the burglar and claims he will not do anything to them because his life is meaningless. After the burglar shoots a warning shot, the gardener tries to escape. He trips and falls through a glass door, and a shard of glass pierces his neck, killing him.  The money is left in front of the house, so the wife retrieves it. She sees a passing car but does not signal it before returning inside. The burglar ties up the CEO and his wife in different rooms. The burglar admits to the CEO that he wanted to know what it was like to live like a rich person. He reveals to him that his wife is taking birth control pills. Cutting herself free, she kills the burglar with a small statue. She then shoots her husband dead, plants the gun in the burglar's hand, and leaves the property.