Su and Jack, a 30-something millennial couple, decide to disconnect from their Internet-obsessed superficial lives in Brooklyn by turning off their phones for a week and staying at a remote cabin owned by their friend Raph. During their stay, Jack notices a fuzzy ball-like object in the den, which Su calls a "pouffe". While Jack is outside, Su secretly turns on her phone and listens to several strange voicemails from her mother about "giant rats" infesting New York City, that seem to consume ethanol. After a night of drinking, while the couple make love in front of a large window, Raph has arrived at the cabin but falls to the ground, revealing a "pouffe" behind him.  The couple awaken to find that Jack's sourdough starter is empty and their bottle of whiskey has been drained. Su realizes that both contained ethanol, and that the "pouffe" may be one of the giant rats her mother was rambling about. The couple hide upstairs and turn on their phones, finding they've lost signal but learning from various voicemails and texts that the "pouffes" are aliens which feed on ethanol, and that have invaded New York, forcing an emergency evacuation. Preparing to escape back to the city, the couple find that the aliens have drained their car's gasoline (due to its ethanol content). They find a Land Rover in the barn with a full tank of diesel, which the aliens ignore feeding on.  Driving through the woods, they come across another couple driving a truck, who are promptly killed by an alien. Recalling the alien's sustenance, Jack throws a bottle of wine at a distance to lure the alien into the woods. The scent of ethanol distracts the alien, which sprays a pheromone and hovers into the forest, clearing their path. Su and Jack hear a baby crying in the other couple's truck, and begrudgingly go back to rescue it. A woman hiding in the other truck emerges and holds them at gunpoint before driving off in the diesel-powered Land Rover, leaving the couple and the baby stranded in the woods. When the couple begin hallucinating due to the alien's pheromones, Su injects Jack and herself with two needles of epinephrine from the truck, knocking them unconscious.  They wake up to find an alien near the baby, who had crawled away while they were unconscious. When the alien shoots its proboscis at Jacks’ chest, Su grabs a knife and cuts it off, which deflates and kills the alien. In an ironic twist, it is revealed that Jack's cell phone (stored in his breast pocket) aided in saving him from the alien attack. While climbing to a lookout point along the trail, they investigate a translucent structure growing out of the ground nearby. On discovering that their phones have regained signal, they check for information and call 911. Meanwhile, while they are distracted by their technology, the structure changes shape to trap them and the baby inside a sound-proof bubble, which gradually ascends beyond the atmosphere, revealing numerous other bubbles also rising into space from all over the Earth.