Dave Skylark is the host of the popular talk show Skylark Tonight, where he interviews various celebrities about personal topics. The show's broadcast gets interrupted by news reports about North Korea, regarding its leader Kim Jong Un and concerns about the country's nuclear weapons program.   After Skylark and his crew celebrate producer Aaron Rapaport's 1,000th episode, Rapaport is upset by a producer peer, who criticizes the show as not being a real news program. After he voices his concern to Skylark and urges change, he agrees and later discovers that Kim is a fan of their show, prompting Rapaport to arrange an interview for him. Traveling to the outskirts of Dandong, China to receive instructions from North Korean chief propagandist Sook-yin Park, Rapaport accepts the interview on behalf of Skylark. Following Rapaport's return, CIA agent Lacey shows up and requests the duo assassinate Kim with a transdermal strip of ricin via handshake to prevent the launch of a nuclear missile at the West Coast; they reluctantly agree.  Skylark carries the strip inside a pack of gum. Upon arrival in Pyongyang, the group is greeted by Sook and taken to the presidential palace where they are introduced to Kim's personal security officers Koh and Yu, who are immediately suspicious of them. When Koh finds the strip, he chews it upon mistaking it for gum. After making a secret request for help, Lacey airdrops them two more strips via a drone. However, to get it back to their room, Rapaport is forced to evade a Siberian tiger and hide the container in his rectum, before getting caught and stripped naked by security.   The next day, Skylark meets Kim and spends the day playing basketball, hanging out, riding in his personal tank and partying with a group of escort women. Kim convinces Skylark that he is misunderstood as both a cruel dictator and a failed administrator, and they become friends. At a state dinner, Koh suffers a seizure from the ricin poisoning and accidentally shoots Yu before dying. A guilt-ridden Skylark discards one of the ricin strips the next morning and thwarts Rapaport's attempt to poison Kim with the second strip.   After a dinner mourning the deaths of the bodyguards, Skylark witnesses Kim's true brutal self as he threatens war against South Korean "capitalists", the US and everyone who attempts to undermine his power, and later discovers that Kim has been lying to him upon seeing that a nearby grocery store is a fake. At the same time, during an attempt to have sex with Rapaport (who still has the ricin strip on his hand), Sook reveals that she actually despises Kim and apologizes for defending the regime. Skylark returns and tries to get Sook's support to assassinate Kim, but she disagrees, suggesting to instead ruin his cult of personality and show the North Korean people the dire state of the country.   The trio secretly devise a plan to expose him on-air and arm themselves with guns. Before the broadcast begins, Kim gifts Skylark a puppy as a symbol of their friendship. During the internationally televised interview with Kim, Skylark addresses increasingly sensitive topics, including the country's food shortage and US-imposed economic sanctions, and challenges his need for his father's approval. Meanwhile, Sook and Rapaport take over the control booth to fend off Kim's guards trying to cut off the broadcast.  Initially resistant, Kim eventually cries uncontrollably and defecates himself after Skylark, having known his fondness for Katy Perry, sings "Firework", ruining Kim's reputation. Feeling betrayed, an enraged Kim shoots Skylark and vows revenge by launching the nuclear missile. Skylark, whose bulletproof vest has saved him, regroups with Rapaport and Sook to escape with the help of a guard and hijacks Kim's tank to get to their pickup point, killing several more guards in the process. Kim chases the group in a helicopter, but is shot down and killed by Skylark before he can issue the command to launch the missile.   With the nuclear launch finally thwarted, Sook guides Skylark and Rapaport to an escape route, explaining that she has to return to Pyongyang in order to maintain security. Skylark and Rapaport are later rescued by SEAL Team Six officers disguised as North Korean soldiers. Back in the US, Skylark writes a book about his experience in North Korea, Rapaport returns to work as a producer and maintains contact with Sook via Skype, and North Korea becomes a denuclearized democracy with Sook as interim leader.