As Christmas approaches, Walter and Audrey leave for a tropical vacation, leaving their kids, Drake, Josh, and Megan, alone at home. Drake plans to hold a party on the roof of Josh's workplace, the Premiere theater. Josh's boss Helen approves on the condition that Drake dresses as Santa at the mall. While hiding from a woman looking to kiss him, Drake accidentally makes an unbreakable promise to a little girl named Mary Alice to give her family the best Christmas ever.  The party is crashed by uninvited guests whom Josh calls the cops on, but a mix-up results in Josh getting arrested. He bonds with his cellmate, Bludge, who pretends to beat Josh up to maintain his tough-guy image in front of the other convicts. Knowing he must fulfill his promise after Mary Alice tells him about her sick foster mom and busy foster dad, Drake attempts to break out Josh to help him, only to get caught and arrested. Acting as Drake and Josh's lawyer, Helen informs the judge of Drake's promise to Mary Alice, who decides they will not be sent to jail as long as they fulfill it. Afterwards, they meet their cruel and embittered parole officer Perry Gilbert, who says he will take a vote from Mary Alice's foster family if they had the best Christmas ever; if any of them vote “no”, Drake and Josh go back to jail.  The duo meet Mary Alice's foster family, which include frequently feuding twins Lily and Violet, foreign boy Zigfee who speaks an unknown language, know-it-all Trey, and Mary Alice's rebellious, loner older brother Luke. Gilbert sabotages the duo's attempts to give Mary Alice's family the best Christmas ever, so Drake bribes Megan with his friend Trevor's rare Royal Smith oboe passed down from his grandfather. Megan agrees, but reneges upon discovering it was a fake.  After receiving several more tickets from Gilbert, the brothers find that he wanted a live pet chimpanzee for Christmas when he was a child, but when he finally got one, it attacked him and fled, causing him to hate Christmas ever since. Drake and Josh then attempt to get the children into caroling, leading them to enter a Christmas parade Drake had shunned earlier. At the parade, Gilbert tricks Josh's co-worker Crazy Steve into loudly reminding them to keep their promise or else they'll be arrested; believing Drake and Josh were only being nice to avoid punishment, Mary Alice and her family leave, heartbroken.  Still determined to keep their promise, Drake and Josh borrow Steve's woodchipper (“Sally”) to make it snow in front of Mary Alice's house by putting ice in the machine, but they inadvertently shoot large chunks across the neighborhood. In trying to stop the machine, the brothers are knocked unconscious, but are brought home by Gilbert, who was secretly gifted a nice chimpanzee by Josh and began to love Christmas again.  The brothers enter the living room the next morning, where Mary Alice's family surprises them, having learned the truth from Gilbert. Everyone votes “yes”, and the charges against Drake and Josh are dropped. Bludge, dressed as Santa, comes down the chimney to deliver gifts to everyone, including a real Royal Smith oboe for Megan. Walter and Audrey return home from their vacation, which turned out to be a small dilapidated hut that blew away in a tropical storm. Steve gets Sally to make snow using hard cheese, and everyone enjoys Christmas by playing in the “cheese snow”.