Maura Ellis, a recently divorced, hardworking nurse, is asked by her parents Deana and Bucky to return to her childhood Orlando home and clean out her bedroom before the house is sold. Her parents also ask that she tell her sister Kate, an irresponsible stylist whose teenaged daughter Haley secretly lives with Maura.   Maura calls Kate but instead convinces her to come to Orlando, as Kate has been kicked out of her apartment. Upon reaching their childhood home, the sisters discover the house has already sold with every room emptied except their bedroom. The parents inform them that they need to finish cleaning out by the end of the weekend. Kate convinces Maura to throw one last party in the house.  The next morning, the new homeowners tell the sisters that the home needs to be in perfect condition to sell. Moving forward with their party plans, Kate and Maura invite most of their friends from high school, excluding Kate's rival, Brinda. While looking for party decorations, they have a run-in with Brinda, who is upset about not being invited. Maura invites her nail stylist to the party and tries to convince Kate to apply for a nail salon job. Kate convinces the owner to pretend to hire her.   During the sisters' shopping for dresses, Haley calls Kate to check in with her. Kate hands her phone to Maura, who convinces Haley that Kate has changed for the better, so she buys a plane ticket to Orlando to surprise her. Kate forces Maura to ask James, a man they hit on earlier, to come to their party and reluctantly agrees to remain sober.  The sisters' high school classmates arrive but have matured and do not want a wild party. Kate and Maura give a speech to their guests and ask their friend Dave to invite his drug dealer Pazuzu. More of their friends show up, and the party becomes more lively. Brinda arrives uninvited, and Kate kicks her out. James also arrives, and he and Maura try to hold a conversation but keep getting interrupted. Seeking revenge, Brinda calls in a noise complaint to the police, though Kate and Maura flirt and talk their way out of trouble.   As the party spins out of control, Haley calls her mother to surprise her about being in town but, upon learning about the party, lashes out at Kate for her lack of responsibility. Kate starts drinking since Haley already suspects she is drunk. After Brinda again sneaks in, she and Kate resolve their mutual dislike. Meanwhile, Maura sneaks off with James, but she falls through the ceiling, and James falls on her childhood ballerina music box, prompting him to leave.  Kate learns that her parents have decided to give her a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the house to allow her to attempt a fresh start. She tries to end the party early despite the recent destruction to the house. She calls the police with a fake noise complaint, but the responding officer recalls that Maura was kind to his disabled cousin years ago and declines to shut down the party. Maura leaves her room and is horrified to see the mess as well as a drunk Kate. At the same time, Kate learns that Maura has been housing Haley and is incensed.   As the sisters fight, Haley, Deana, and Bucky arrive. The backyard pool suddenly becomes a sinkhole, Haley falls in, and Kate jumps to the rescue. After expelling the guests, the parents tell Kate and Maura that they need to get their lives in order.  The next morning, Deana and Bucky refuse Maura's offer to help pay for the damages, but reluctantly allow Kate to stay for two weeks while she and James begin home repairs. Maura and Kate reconcile, and Kate convinces Maura to try reconnecting with James. The parents ultimately sell the repaired house with Brinda as their real estate agent. Kate opens a nail salon in Orlando while Maura and James begin dating. The film closes with the Ellis family and James celebrating Christmas at the parents' new home.