Jack Malik is a struggling singer-songwriter from Lowestoft who plays gigs to tiny audiences. His manager and childhood friend Ellie Appleton encourages him not to give up on his dreams. During a twelve-second global power outage, Jack is hit by a bus. After recovering, he sings the Beatles song "Yesterday" for his friends and discovers they have never heard of the Beatles.   After searching for the Beatles on the internet and finding the band's records missing from his collection, Jack realizes that he is now living in a world where the group never formed. He begins performing Beatles songs, passing them off as his.  Ellie has Jack record a demo with Gavin, a local music producer. Following a performance on local television, Jack is invited by pop star Ed Sheeran to play as his opening act in Moscow. Ellie, a mathematics teacher who has parent-teacher conferences scheduled, declines to join him, so Jack's roadie friend Rocky travels with him instead. After the gig, Sheeran challenges Jack to a songwriting duel: after Jack plays "The Long and Winding Road," Sheeran graciously accepts defeat.  In Los Angeles, Sheeran's ruthless manager Debra Hammer signs Jack to her label and engineers his rise to global fame. At Jack's going-away party before his move to Los Angeles, Ellie confesses that she has always been in love with him. Jack starts recording an album at EastWest Studios, but cannot remember the lyrics for "Eleanor Rigby". Hoping to trigger memories, Jack goes to the Beatles' hometown of Liverpool, visiting landmarks such as Strawberry Field, Penny Lane, and the grave of Eleanor Rigby.   Ellie joins Jack in Liverpool, and they share a drunken evening and kiss, but she tells him she is not interested in a one-night stand. The next morning, Jack and Rocky pursue Ellie to the train station, where she congratulates Jack but tells him she cannot be a part of his celebrity life. He returns to Los Angeles heartbroken and desperate to have an everyday life again, while Ellie begins dating Gavin.  The record label prepares to launch Jack's debut album, but reject his title ideas—taken from Beatles albums—and names it One Man Only, pushing his talent. Jack persuades them to launch the album with a rooftop concert in Gorleston-on-Sea.   Two people who also recall the Beatles approach him backstage. They tell him they know he did not write the songs, but thank him, having feared the Beatles' music was gone forever. They give him the address of John Lennon, who, having never formed the Beatles in this reality, has lived a long, happy life with his wife out of the public spotlight. Jack then visits John, who advises him to pursue the one he loves and always tell the truth.  Jack calls in a favour with Sheeran, who arranges for him to perform at Wembley Stadium. Jack confesses to the crowd that he plagiarized the music and loves Ellie, and has Rocky upload the songs free on the internet, sabotaging the record release and enraging Debra. Jack and Ellie marry and start a family, and he gives up stardom to become a music teacher.