In Edwardian London, Wendy Darling spends her last night at home with her parents and her two younger brothers, John and Michael, before leaving for boarding school the next day. She is unhappy with her departure and feels she does not want to grow up. Having heard Wendy's wish, Peter Pan arrives to take her to Neverland where she will never have to grow up. With the help of his companion, fairy  Tinker Bell, Wendy, John, and Michael fly to Neverland.  Upon arriving, they are attacked by a ship of pirates, led by Captain Hook, who wants revenge on Peter for cutting off his right hand and throwing it to a crocodile. Wendy becomes separated from Peter and her brothers and meets Tiger Lily and the Lost Boys. She witnesses the pirates capturing John and Michael to drown them at Skull Rock. Peter fights the Captain, while Wendy, Tiger Lily, and the Lost Boys save John and Michael. Hook and the pirates are chased away by the crocodile.  Wendy learns from Peter that Captain Hook was once his best friend known as James, until he left Neverland and grew up to be a pirate. Hook's crew captures the Lost Boys and the Darling children, while the Captain attacks Peter, who seemingly falls to his death. Instead of feeling joy, however, Hook feels empty and unsatisfied. He reveals to Wendy that the reason he left Neverland was because he missed his mother and wanted to find her. Eventually he got lost at sea and was rescued by his first mate, Mr. Smee, and the pirates, who raised him. When he returned to Neverland, Peter could not accept how much he had changed, and the two became rivals.  While Tiger Lily finds Peter and nurses him back to health, Hook forces Wendy to walk the plank, but she flies away with Tinker Bell's pixie dust and the happy thought of wanting to grow up. Tinker Bell flies the ship into the air with pixie dust, helping the Lost Boys break free and battle the pirates. Peter arrives to confront Hook, and after a long duel, finally apologizes to him for being a bad friend, but Hook does not want their rivalry to end. When Wendy turns the ship on its back, causing the pirates to fall off, Peter attempts to save Hook, encouraging him to fly, but without happy thoughts, he falls into the sea while losing his hook. Afterward, the Lost Boys decide they all want a real home, so they fly back to London on the ship with the Darlings.  Arriving home, Wendy introduces the Lost Boys to her parents. Peter reveals the Darlings' house was his old home until one day he ran away. Wendy suggests he stay, but Peter feels he is not ready to grow up. He bids farewell to Wendy and the Lost Boys, and returns to Neverland with Tinker Bell.  Back in Neverland, Hook and Smee are revealed to have survived the fall. Hook sees Peter returning on the ship and smiles happily.