Sylvia Dudek, an art professional, discusses seeking funding to open her own gallery with her gardener, Carl before her husband Mark arrives home, stashing two briefcases away in the basement and a bedroom closet, depositing the money from one in a safe. Later that evening they have a dinner party with Mark's colleague and co-conspirator in an industrial espionage scheme. Sean brings his girlfriend Christina with him, and they have a polite evening marred by awkward moments brought about by Sean's rudeness.  John arrives claiming to be a new neighbour and a consultant, he is initially turned away by Sylvia but is invited in after complimenting her taste in fashion and presenting an expensive bottle of wine. Joining the party in the garden he appears well-mannered, cultured and knowledgeable but soon reveals he is aware of the men's espionage and their payoff of five million dollars in cash as well as various personal details. He threatens them with a gun and tells them he intends to cut off Sean's fingers one at a time unless the money is brought to him. Mark and Sean protest their innocence before John grabs Sean's hand, at which point he confesses that his share is in the basement. Christina retrieves the briefcase, taking a small stack of bills for herself. John demands the rest of the money, then cuts off Sean's index finger. Christina pepper sprays John, and he is knocked out after a short struggle.  The group take John hostage, tied to a chair while they debate the correct course of action. Sylvia wants to release him and let him take half of the money. Sean believes they should kill John because they can't trust him to leave their lives alone, especially after deducing he has intercepted their communications. Sean's increasing cocaine usage makes the others mistrust and fear his impulsiveness, but Mark privately agrees that he should be killed. Mark reveals to Sylvia that they have been living beyond their means and their investments have been lost, leaving them on the verge of bankruptcy, meanwhile John manipulates Christina into untying him before riling Sean to attempt to torture him only to retaliate and knock him out. Mark gives John an incorrect code to his safe containing the remaining money and tells him the safe is time-locked and will not open for another eight hours. John hits Mark with the butt of his pistol and knocks him unconscious.  Mark awakes on a dock at the edge of his pond, tied to a cinder block. John tells him to re-evaluate his priorities before kicking the block in and almost drowns Mark, who sees Sean's dead body under the surface. He agrees to John's demands, but insists the safe cannot be opened until morning. John relents and locks him in the basement. John and Sylvia bond over a discussion of their appreciation for literature, and she cleans and bandages John's head wound. John reveals that he knows from his surveillance of the couple that Sylvia is pregnant and has not told Mark, saying he would not make a good father but she would be a good mother.  In the morning, Carl arrives and is heard by Mark who tells him to rescue Sylvia and Christina while John takes him to unlock the safe, which he does and talks briefly with Sylvia while Christina sleeps. John takes the money from the safe and the briefcase from downstairs and leaves, telling the hostages to give a false physical description to the police. Sylvia packs a bag and tells Mark she is divorcing him. John escapes to a barn where he has stashed a motorcycle and unloads one briefcase of money into the saddlebags before discovering the other has been filled with books, which amuses him. Sylvia meets with Carl and offers him a share of the money, which he happily rejects. The film ends with Sylvia and John driving away separately, each with two and a half million dollars.