thumb|The "Coney Island community center" Lucy wants to preserve was actually the Childs Restaurant location on Coney Island's Riegelmann Boardwalk. It was declared a New York Landmark a month after the film's premiere. It closed later (as in this 2013 picture) and, after renovation, became part of the Ford Amphitheater at Coney Island.  Lucy Kelson is an intelligent, highly competent liberal lawyer who specializes in historic preservation, environmental law, and pro bono causes in NYC. George Wade is an arrogant, needy billionaire real estate developer and stylish womanizing playboy, who is also quite naïve. Lucy's hard work and devotion to others contrasts sharply with George's childish recklessness and greed.  Lucy meets George in an attempt to stop the destruction of the Coney Island community center from her childhood. Discovering she graduated from prestigious Harvard law school, he offers to hire her to replace his old Chief Counsel, overlooking their opposing views of real estate development. She decides the benefits he offers for discretionary funding for community causes she espouses outweighs the negatives, especially as he promises to protect the community center.  Lucy finds what he really requires is advice in all aspects of his life. She regretfully becomes his indispensable assistant and he calls her for every little thing at all hours. After Lucy is disrupted at a friend's wedding by George's latest "emergency" (what to wear to an event he is attending), she gives him two weeks' notice of resignation.  Lucy looks for work at other firms, but George has called in advance asking them not to hire her, so he can keep her on. Eventually he admits defeat and she offers to help him find a replacement, but unaware of how close and interdependent they have become. They act like an old married couple at a restaurant, able to simultaneously carry out a conversation while involuntarily exchanging food out of habit from knowing each other's food preferences.  When potential interviewee June Carver shows up without an appointment seeking the position, Lucy speaks to her, but is concerned she lacks real estate experience. When George sees June he is immediately attracted and is ready to hire her on the spot, seemingly disregarding Lucy's concerns. Lucy becomes increasingly concerned and competitive with her replacement. When George invites June to business events that Lucy would normally go on, she acts increasingly jealous.  Lucy finds out that despite George's promise, the community center is going to be knocked down so goes to confront him on his apparent betrayal. Arriving at his hotel, she finds June and George in his suite in lingerie during a game of "strip chess". George confronts her the next day (her last day) where Lucy reminds him he promised her to spare the community center and storms out.  After Lucy is gone, George realizes his time with her has demonstrated he needs to change. Meanwhile, in her new job, she realises she misses him. George goes in search of Lucy and reveals he decided to keep his promise to her. She initially rebuffs him but then runs after him and they declare their feelings.  In the DVD version of the film, an unreleased wedding scene of George and Lucy was featured. George and Lucy were married at the community center attended by family and friends.