Former Vietnam War special operations forces soldier Ngoc Minh Quan runs a Chinese restaurant in London. His only daughter, Fan, is killed in a terrorist bombing for which Irish republican group the "Authentic IRA" claims responsibility. Quan visits the Scotland Yard daily, and when told by  Commander Bromley he is hindering the investigation, Quan travels to Belfast.  Quan visits Northern Ireland deputy First Minister and Sinn Féin politician Liam Hennessy, a former Provisional IRA leader who claims to have renounced violence. Quan tries to demand the names, but Hennessy denies any knowledge, so Quan sets off a homemade bomb in Hennessy's building and leaves a fake explosive on Hennessy's car as warnings. Hennessy tells his men to stop Quan and orders IRA weapons dumps be searched for missing Semtex. Hennessy's men find Quan but he fights them off and escapes. Quan photographs Hennessy kissing his mistress Maggie in a restaurant.  Quan tries to interrogate one of Hennessy's henchmen but is shot and flees. He recalls escaping Vietnam when his first two daughters were raped and killed by Thai pirates. Hennessy enlists his nephew Sean Morrison from New York, a former Royal Irish Regiment soldier, to stop Quan. Morrison negotiates with Bromley that each IRA cell will change their code words; Bromley agrees on the condition that the police will take them down, not Morrison and his uncle.  Hennessy's old IRA commander Hugh McGrath denies knowledge of any missing Semtex and tells Hennessy the attacks should continue. Hennessy reveals that he ordered bombings of financial institutions but for civilians to be spared. McGrath accuses Hennessy of caring more about his political position within the British government than the IRA cause. Hennessy demands that McGrath call off the bombers, threatening to kill him and them otherwise.  A bombing without a code word prompts distrust between Bromley and Hennessy. British cabinet minister Katherine Davies tells Hennessy that the royal pardons that he sought for his IRA ex-comrades will only be considered if he hands over the bombers, otherwise British soldiers will re-occupy Northern Ireland within two days. Hennessy learns that Morrison unintentionally leaked information during an adulterous dalliance. Bromley discovers that McGrath is the leader of the Authentic IRA and notifies Hennessy. Hennessy tortures McGrath into identifying the bombers, which include Maggie. The affair was planned to gain leverage over Hennessy to support violence. Hennessy discovers his own wife, Mary, is behind the attacks. She resents her brother’s assassination by the Ulster Volunteer Force, and hates her husband for allowing them to be imprisoned instead of ordering their deaths. Hennessy executes McGrath and shares the information with Morrison.  After a knife fight at Quan's hideout in the forest, Morrison gives Quan the names of the terrorists and their location before Quan lets him go. Hennessy tells Morrison to bury McGrath, and that after one last task, Morrison must return to New York.  Quan enters the bombers' London hideout and kills everyone but Maggie. He leaves just before the police and MI5 storm the flat. They torture Maggie into disclosing the location of their next bomb, which is planted in a reporter's laptop to be detonated on a plane carrying British dignitaries to a conference. British police detonate the laptop without casualties, and Maggie is executed to tie up loose ends. Davies, who was scheduled to be on the targeted flight, calls Hennessy to tell him she knows of his involvement, but having helped prevent the attack he can remain as deputy First Minister, albeit under her control. She confirms that pardons for five IRA fugitives have been granted. Morrison shoots Mary, eliminating the last of the Authentic IRA cell and any link to Hennessy.  Hennessy is confronted at his hotel by Quan with the picture of him kissing Maggie. Quan forces Hennessy to post the photo on the Internet, publicising his links to the Authentic IRA and ensuring the end of his political career. Quan returns to the restaurant.  Realising Quan's role, Scotland Yard puts him under surveillance on the basis that he might think they owe him something. Bromley decides to take no further action against Quan and keeps him under surveillance for the time being.