In 2002 in Ridgefield, CA, awkward teen Marni Olsen is tormented and bullied, especially by mean girl J.J.. Will, her protector brother, is a basketball star, oblivious to J.J.'s tormenting and her costing the team's crucial win by pushing the mascot-clad Marni into him.  Eight years later, Marni is a successful PR executive in LA, recently promoted to their NYC office. She returns home for Will's upcoming wedding to 'amazing' Joanna. Having never met her, Marni discovers on the flight back that his betrothed is J.J..   Marni is both upset to see her family adores Joanna and frustrated she supposedly doesn’t remember her, so doesn't apologize. Marni and Will's mother Gail unhappily discovers that Joanna's beloved aunt Ramona, a wealthy businesswoman paying for the wedding, is her ex high school friend.  Marni won't forgive Joanna without an apology, and tries to tell Will about her past bullying. A series of mishaps have her again looking like in high school, further distressing her. Then, when Joanna plays the song she used to torment Marnie in high school, she realizes she does remember. Marni decides to dig up a video from the time capsule buried during her senior year of Joanna's bullying.   Meanwhile, Gail finds Ramona for "closure" for the past. Seemingly they make up, but Ramona still seems unhappy with her.  Joanna's ex Tim, is devastated to hear she's marrying Will. Afterwards, at her bridal shower, Marni confronts Joanna privately, who finally admits she remembers her. Rather than apologizing, Joanna threatens her to not interfere with her and Will’s relationship. This makes Marni determined to ruin the wedding to protect Will.   Marni invites Tim as her date to the rehearsal dinner, hoping to cause problems. When the guests make their toasts, an emotional Tim embarrasses Joanna by announcing she'd left him at the altar. Later, the time capsule video is shown, with Joanna tormenting Marni and other students, including at the big basketball game. It shocks the guests and Will who, confused and upset, leaves to get some air.  Marni confronts Joanna again and they fight, throwing plates and glasses. Marni insists Joanna hasn't changed, pointing out that she pretended to forget her. A remorseful Joanna insists she did it to start over.   Marni wrecks one of the wedding gifts, so Joanna dumps a bowl of cold soup on her head. Will sees, scolds them both, then storms out, calling off the wedding. Then Ramona and Gail argue, Ramona complaining she overshadowed her in high school, and stole her crush, Richie Phillips. They end up falling into the pool, but make up when Gail's husband Mark appears. At home, he grounds both Marni and Gail.  That night, Marni finds Joanna in her wedding dress, crying and binge eating. She finally admits she feels awful for bullying and tormenting her in high school. Joanna tells Marni that she changed after her parents' death, hoping to become someone they could be proud of. She pretended not to know her because she feared her past bullying would cost her Will and his family, as she loves them all and feels part of a family again.   Marni finally forgives her and promises to get them back together. She apologizes to Will too, explaining she was only trying to protect him from what Joanna had been.  Joanna and Will reconcile in the family's old tree house. However, their younger brother Ben loosened the screws. So it collapses, injuring them, forcing a hospital stay and delaying the wedding.   However, Marni throws together a wedding at the hospital. Gail surprises Ramona with Richie Phillips, and they seemingly start a relationship. Meanwhile, Marni appears to start one up with Charlie, her brother's best friend and the other person who was nice to her in high school.   Joanna introduces grandma Bunny to Helen, who'd also been her high school rival. Bunny finally gets her revenge when she cuts in on Helen's dance and takes her partner, while Helen swears that the game is not yet over.