Growing up, Evan Treborn and his friends, Lenny Kagan and Kayleigh Miller, and Kayleigh's brother Tommy, suffered many severe psychological traumas that frequently caused Evan to experience amnesia. These traumas include being forced to take part in pornography by Kayleigh and Tommy's father, George Miller; being nearly strangled to death by his institutionalized father, Jason Treborn, who is then killed in front of him by guards; accidentally killing a mother and her infant daughter while playing with dynamite with his friends; and seeing his dog, Crockett, burned alive by Tommy.  Some time later, while entertaining a girl in his college dorm room, Evan discovers that when he reads from his former journals, he can time travel and redo parts of his past. His time-traveling episodes account for the frequent blackouts he experienced, since those are the moments when his older self occupied his consciousness.   After a traumatized Kayleigh commits suicide, Evan travels back in time and convinces George to never touch her. He comes back to a reality where he and Kayleigh are a happy couple in college. However, George took out his frustrations on Tommy, who grew up to be even more unhinged. Tommy eventually attacks Evan, who kills him in a fit of rage and is sent to prison. There, he manages to time travel once more after his mother brings him a journal during a visit.  Upon his return, Evan stops Tommy from killing his dog, but Lenny, who has been bullied by Tommy and become mentally unstable after the dynamite accident, kills Tommy with a metal shard. Following Tommy’s death, Evan wakes up in a new reality where Lenny has been institutionalized since then, and Kayleigh has become a drug-addicted prostitute. He then travels back to stop the woman and her daughter from being killed with the dynamite, and while Tommy shields the mother and baby from the blast, Evan is caught directly in the explosion.   In the new reality, Lenny and Kayleigh are a happy couple and Tommy has become religious, but Evan is a double amputee whose mother developed lung cancer after becoming a chain smoker from the grief of her son’s injuries. To save his mother and himself from the new fate, Evan goes back to their childhood. There, Evan lights the dynamite and prepares to discard it, but Kayleigh picks it up when it’s smacked out of his hand by her father, and it explodes, killing her.   Evan wakes up in a mental hospital and finds that, in this reality, the journals do not exist and his brain has suffered irreversible damage due to the rigors of time travel. At one point, Evan has a conversation with a doctor who reveals that his father had the same abilities before losing the photographs that allowed him to time jump, causing everyone to believe him to be crazy. Evan ultimately reaches the conclusion that he and his friends will never have good futures as long as he keeps altering the past.   After escaping the hospital staff and barricading himself in an office, Evan travels back one final time, via the use of an old home movie, to the day he first met Kayleigh. He intentionally upsets her so that she and Tommy will choose to live with their mother in a different neighborhood, instead of with their father when they divorce. As a result, they are not subjected to a destructive upbringing, do not grow up with Evan, Lenny is never bullied, and all go on to have happy, successful lives.   Evan awakens in a college dorm room, where Lenny is his roommate. As a test, he asks where Kayleigh is, to which Lenny responds "Who's Kayleigh?" Satisfied that his friends' futures are secure, Evan burns his journals and videos to avoid altering the timeline ever again.  Eight years later in New York City, Evan exits an office building and passes Kayleigh on the street. Despite a brief look towards each other, they both keep walking.  Director's cut The director's cut features a different ending.  With his brain terribly damaged and aware that he is committed to a psychiatric facility where he will lose access to his time travel ability, Evan makes a desperate attempt to change the timeline by watching a family video, which shows his mother just before she was about to give birth to Evan. Evan travels back to that moment and strangles himself in the womb with his umbilical cord so as to prevent the multi-generational curse from continuing, consistent with an added scene where a psychic palm reader tells Evan "you have no lifeline" and that he does "not belong to this world".  Kayleigh is then seen as a child in the new timeline having chosen to live with her mother instead of her father, and a montage suggests that the lives of the other childhood characters have become loving and less tragic.