Reuben Tishkoff builds a hotel-casino on the Las Vegas Strip; against advice from his friend and erstwhile criminal partner, Danny Ocean, he involves himself with investor and casino mogul Willy Bank, whose thugs strongarm Reuben into signing over his ownership stake.   Tishkoff suffers a heart attack and becomes bedridden. Ocean offers Bank a chance to set things right, given his long history in Las Vegas and the fact that he "shook Sinatra's hand", but Bank refuses and completes construction of the hotel, renamed "The Bank". To avenge Tishkoff, Ocean gathers his crew and plans to ruin Bank on the opening night of the hotel.  The crew's plan has two objectives:   Prevent The Bank from winning the prestigious Five Diamond Award, which all of his previous hotels have won. Saul Bloom acts as the anonymous Five Diamond reviewer, while the real one is treated horribly.  Rig all of the casino's games to pay out millions in winnings; Bank's casino has to make $500 million in the first quarter in order to stay open, otherwise he would lose control of his hotel to the Las Vegas Gaming Commission  While they can implement various rigging mechanisms into the casino, Danny and his crew would be stopped by the Greco, a state-of-the-art computer system that monitors the gamblers' biometric responses and detects cheating.  To disrupt the Greco, they plan to use a magnetron disguised as a cell phone as a gift to Bank. They also obtain the drilling machine used to bore the Channel Tunnel to simulate an earthquake under the casino, ensuring evacuation of the premises. Their plan on opening night is to have Bank inadvertently disrupt the Greco by using his new phone, initiate their rigged machines as well as dealers on their payroll, and then simulate the earthquake to force the evacuation so players leave with their winnings.  Shortly before opening night, the drill breaks down. The team is forced to ask Terry Benedict, their previous target, for funds to buy a replacement. He offers the funds for a portion of the take as he dislikes Bank, and demands they steal Bank's private diamond collection in celebration of his Five Diamond Awards.   The jewels are secured in a case at the top of the casino. So, Ocean has Linus Caldwell seduce Bank's assistant, Abigail Sponder, to gain access to the case. Secretly, Benedict contracts master thief François "The Night Fox" Toulour to intercept the diamonds.  Ocean institutes the final part of the plan by having FBI agents on his payroll arrive at the hotel and arrest Livingston Dell on suspicion of rigging the card-shuffling machines, allowing them to be replaced with actual rigged ones. Another FBI agent arrests Linus for switching the diamonds with fakes. The agent takes Linus away and he turns out to be his father Robert, whom Ocean enlisted.   Trying to evacuate from the roof, they are intercepted by Toulour. He takes the diamonds and parachutes off the roof after tricking Linus with an unloaded pistol. However, Ocean anticipated this and never had Linus make the switch. Linus and his father escape in a helicopter piloted by Basher, tearing the case of diamonds off the roof.  The earthquake is triggered and the players evacuate with millions of dollars in winnings. Ocean tells Bank he is the mastermind behind everything and that they did it for Reuben. He reminds him that he cannot get revenge, since Danny knows all of Bank's associates and they prefer him over Bank, and he cannot go to the police either due to Bank's illegal activities.   With their share of the winnings, Ocean's crew buy property on the Strip for Reuben to build his own casino. Ocean donates Benedict's $72 million portion of the take to charity in Benedict's name, forcing him to admit his philanthropy on The Oprah Winfrey Show.  Ocean, Rusty, and Linus say their goodbyes at the airport. Before he boards his flight, Rusty gives his last coin to the real Five Diamond reviewer to play on a slot machine in the terminal. The reviewer, unaware that the slot machine is rigged, wins $11 million and publicly celebrates his winnings as Rusty walks away grinning.