In rural Pennsylvania, two farming families - the Lomacks (father George, daughters, Heather and Kim and grandson Reese, Kim's infant son), and the Dolans (Kathryn, Tom, Aubrey and daughter Christina) - maintain a long-running feud. Both families have fallen on desperate times financially, exacerbating the situation. George Lomack, a single father operating a failing auto repair business, is approached by representatives of Patriot Exploration, a natural gas fracking company with an interest in acquiring drilling rights on his land. Eager to earn money for his two daughters, George accepts the offer. This is to the horror of Dolan matriarch Kathryn, and the tension between the two families escalates further.  Patriot Exploration brings in their equipment and begins operations on the Lomack property, greatly disrupting the lives of the two families. Strange events begin soon thereafter; the members of both families gradually suffer the effects of a strange illness, initially compelling them to obsessively scratch their skin. As their sanity degenerates from the illness, George's infant grandson senses something wrong with the tap water and refuses to drink it, but the others do. Other strange events occur, such as the conspicuous absence of wildlife sounds outside the families' homes.  The illness is the result of a fungus unearthed by the fracking, poisoning the air and water. Kathryn goes missing after working in the barn and suffering from a coughing fit, she crawls through the woods. Christina and Tom Dolan go looking for her and Tom finds her body kneeling at a tree after and sprouting fungal tendrils. While Tom looks at her in horror, a sack on a tendril explodes, covering Tom in a substance. Kim finds Reese (George's grandson) in his crib, his body reduced to a gelatinous mass after his skin is digested by the fungus. Kim is shot by Aubrey Dolan (Tom's wife) under the influence of the fungus. Heather kills Aubrey with a baseball bat as she is attacking George. George drives Kim to a neighbors house for help; Heather stays behind to check on the Lomacks. George attacks and presumably kills the neighbor while hallucinating and seeing his own face.  While Christina and Heather are in the Lomack's kitchen, Tom shows up and Christina, hallucinating that he has the same tendrils growing from his body, shoots and kills him. Heather and Christina leave and go to the tree house in the woods and pass out. Christina, still hallucinating, thinks Heather has changed and sees blood running down her legs. She makes her way to her truck and finds a rifle; firing it into the empty woods. She then drives into the corn fields before getting the truck stuck and passes out. From this point forward, it is hard to tell if the events are really happening or if they are hallucinations as Christina is in normal clothes with no signs of the fungus infection and carrying on about her day, having taken over the farms as Kathryn mentioned several times.  In the closing moments, Christina is seen scratching her skin, suggesting she may be infected. During the end credits, the harvested corn from the Dolan farm travels by truck to an unknown destination in a bayside city. The drone viewpoint also reveals that the watershed from the farms appears to flow in the direction of the bay, leading to the ocean.