Three years after their final competition, the original Bellas have graduated from Barden University, but they all hate their jobs. Beca and Amy, whose relationships ended some time after the competition, are now roommates along with Chloe in New York City. They're invited alongside the remaining original Bellas by Emily, now a senior and leader of the current Barden Bellas, to an event under the impression they will be performing there, only to discover they are merely guests. Disappointed, they reconvene at a bar and express how much they miss performing with each other. Aubrey convinces them to join a USO tour headlined by DJ Khaled, hoping her father will finally watch her perform. As Stacie is eight months pregnant and unable to tour, Emily takes her place.  The Bellas land at a base in Rota, Spain, greeted by liaison soldiers Chicago and Zeke. They also meet the other three bands on the tour, which use musical instruments, making the Bellas feel out of place. Chloe begins to fall for Chicago. Fat Amy learns that Fergus, her estranged father (who is also a ruthless international crime lord), has found her at their hotel. The Bellas are invited to a party at DJ Khaled's suite, where Beca develops a friendship with DJ Khaled's music producer Theo, who is impressed when she easily produces a mix of her own singing on Khaled's editing equipment. Moments later, the party is thrown into chaos when Aubrey accidentally starts a fire. Meanwhile, Amy sneaks off to a poker tournament, which is revealed to be a ruse by Fergus in order to get back into Amy's life, which she agrees to after believing he has changed.  While the Bellas are recovering from ruining DJ Khaled's party, Stacie calls to inform them that she has given birth to a girl, whom she'd named Bella. The news inspires the group to continue performing, a decision which is met with acclaim from their crowds. Fergus and Amy gradually make up, until he accidentally reveals that he is only trying to acquire her US$190 million offshore account created by Amy's mother, causing Amy to disown her father. Meanwhile, DJ Khaled asks Beca to open for him without the other Bellas. Beca declines the offer and returns to her room, and doesn't tell the group she was asked.  The Bellas (without Beca and Amy) are abducted and taken aboard Fergus' yacht, as an attempt to manipulate Amy. When she and Beca learn of the kidnapping, they sneak onboard. Beca distracts Fergus by leading the Bellas in a performance of "Toxic", while Amy sets up and detonates a bomb. The Bellas escape the yacht, and Fergus is later arrested. After the Bellas are rescued by the military, Amy reveals DJ Khaled's proposition to Beca to the others. They encourage her to take the chance, agreeing that it is time to move on with their lives. They know they will stay connected to each other as a family. At the USO's final performance, Beca opens for DJ Khaled, then brings the Bellas onstage to sing their final performance – "Freedom! '90".  Gail and John, the public announcers when the Bellas originally competed, have filmed a Bella documentary, only to be appalled when John realizes they didn't record the Bellas' final performance. Now the Bellas' lives are improving: Amy uses her new bankroll for tributes to singers named Amy; Aubrey works as a birthing coach; Flo's juice cart becomes an international brand; Chloe gets into vet school; Cynthia-Rose enlists in the USAF flight school; Emily returns to Barden and to her songwriting; Lilly reveals that she was quiet because she was possessed by Satan, the bomb snapped her out of it, and her real name is Esther, and starts a relationship with DJ Dragon Nutz; Aubrey reconnects with her father; Chloe and Chicago become an item; Beca is now Theo's boss.