Three years after the events of Rush Hour 2, in 2001, Chinese Ambassador Solon Han, with Hong Kong Police Force Chief Inspector Lee as his bodyguard, addresses the importance of fighting the Triads at the World Criminal Court in Los Angeles, while LAPD Detective James Carter is working as a traffic cop.   When Han starts to announce the whereabouts of Shy Shen, a semi-mythical individual of great importance to the Chinese mob, an assassin in the building across from them suddenly snipes him, causing an outrageous panic of many in the nearby streets. Lee corners the shooter, but when he learns that this is his childhood foster brother, Kenji, who shot the ambassador, he hesitates, allowing Kenji to escape just as Carter arrives after hearing what happened over the police radio.  Han is later hospitalized at UCLA Medical Center, surviving the assassination attempt, and Lee and Carter promise his daughter Soo Yung to find the person responsible. She insists they head to the local Kung Fu studio to retrieve an envelope Han left her, but after a brief scuffle with the students, they learn from studio master Yu that the Triads took Soo Yung's belongings.  Lee and Carter return to the hospital and intercept a few French-speaking Chinese hitmen before they can further injure Han. After defeating them, Lee and Carter interrogate one of them with the help of Sister Agnes, a French-speaking nun. For her protection, they take Soo Yung to the French Embassy, leaving her with French ambassador and chairman of the World Criminal Court, Varden Reynard. When Reynard and Soo Yung are nearly killed by a car bomb, Lee and Carter go to Paris to investigate this case further.  After a painful inspection from Parisian Commissaire Revi, Lee and Carter meet anti-American taxicab driver, George, and force him to drive them to a Triad hideout. While there, Carter meets stage performer Geneviève while Lee is tricked by mob assassin Jasmine, who claims to have information about Shy Shen, and Carter saves Lee from being killed.  The pair tries to escape, but is ultimately captured by Kenji's men. Kenji says he'll let them live if they leave Paris, but Lee refuses. Following a short struggle, he and Carter successfully escape. They recover and rest at a hotel where they both book themselves a room, and Lee soon reveals his relationship with Kenji and decides to continue alone.   A disillusioned Carter leaves, but recomposes himself when he spots and follows Geneviève. Meanwhile, Reynard meets Lee and explains Shy Shen is not a person, but a list of Triad leaders and that Geneviève is Han's informant with access to the list.  After locating Geneviève and saving her from being killed, the two flee with her to their hotel. They are attacked by Jasmine, but George rescues them out of a newfound admiration for Americans. Geneviève reveals to Lee and Carter that the Triad leaders' names were tattooed on the back of her head and that she will be beheaded when the Triads capture her. Lee and Carter bring her to Reynard and discover he was working with the Triads the entire time. Kenji calls to inform Lee that he has captured Soo Yung and demands he turn over Geneviève.  Lee arrives at the Eiffel Tower to make the exchange, with Carter disguised as Geneviève with a wig. Kenji challenges Lee to a sword fight, during which the two fall into a safety net. After Kenji's sword cuts the net, Lee tries to save him, but Kenji is touched by Lee's kindness and lets go, falling to his death and devastating Lee.   Meanwhile, Carter single handedly fights off Kenji's henchmen, manages to save Soo Yung and defeats Jasmine by kicking her into an elevator wheel that seemingly bisects her. After escaping the remaining Triad members, Carter and Lee are confronted by Reynard, who threatens to kill Geneviève and frame them. However, George shoots Reynard from behind, killing him. As the police arrive, Revi tries to take credit for Lee and Carter's work, but they both knock him out with a double punch and leave with a victory dance to Edwin Starr's "War".