In West Dallas, Texas, 22-year-old drug dealer Chris Smith comes to the trailer park home of his dimwitted father Ansel and his cheating step-mother Sharla after his mother and Ansel's ex-wife, Adele, has thrown Chris out of her house. To make matters worse, Adele stole cocaine Chris was supposed to sell, and he is now desperate to pay the $6,000 debt he owes his supplier Digger Soames. Chris tells Ansel that by killing Adele, they can collect on a $50,000 life insurance policy of which Chris's sister Dottie is the sole beneficiary. Chris and Ansel agree that after paying a hit man from the proceeds of the insurance policy, they will split the remainder four ways between themselves, Dottie, and Sharla. Dottie approves of the plan and Chris arranges a meeting with Joe Cooper, a police detective who has a side career as a contract killer. Before the meeting, Dottie tells Joe that Adele tried to kill her once when she was an infant.  Since Chris and Ansel are broke, the plan almost falls apart when Joe demands $25,000 in advance. However, Joe is interested in Dottie, who is implied to be developmentally disabled after an incident where her mother tried to suffocate her as a child, and offers to take her as a "retainer" until the insurance money comes through. Joe commits statutory rape of Dottie. Digger has his biker henchmen beat Chris badly and threatens to have him killed unless he pays what he owes. Chris has a change of heart and asks Joe to call off the hit and stop seeing Dottie, only to discover that he has already killed Adele. With the help of the reluctant Chris, Joe leaves the body in a car and sets it on fire.  After Adele's death, the family learns that the insurance beneficiary is actually Rex, Adele's boyfriend, rather than Dottie. Chris then admits he originally heard the details about the policy from Rex, who also told him about Joe, thereby duping Chris into hiring Joe to kill Adele. Ansel blames Chris for the fiasco and tells him he should just kill himself. Chris tries to persuade Dottie to run away with him to escape Digger and Joe, both of whom expect to be paid. Dottie agrees to go with Chris if she can see Joe first.  After Adele's funeral, Joe pulls Rex over in his car and Chris buys an illegal pistol. When Ansel and Sharla return home, they find Joe inside with Dottie. He comes out of her room and asks increasingly pointed questions of Sharla, leading her to admit that she knew the policy was really for $100,000, since accidental death doubled the payout. Joe shows them a check of that amount payable to Rex, implying he is dead, as well as offering incriminating photos that prove Sharla was having an affair with Rex. Angered, Ansel declines to protect Sharla when Joe chokes her, punches her, and forces her to simulate oral sex on a fried chicken drumstick.  Joe knows Chris is coming to take Dottie away, and threatens to kill Ansel and Sharla if they don't stop him. After Chris arrives and is seated for dinner, Joe announces that he and Dottie will be married. Chris rejects this, ordering Dottie to leave with him. Joe tells her to stay where she is, but Dottie stands up and walks away as both men yell at her. When Chris threatens Joe with his gun, Sharla stabs Chris with a steak knife and Joe tackles him. Ansel and Sharla rush to assist Joe as he savagely beats Chris, not wanting to be killed if Chris flees with Dottie. Dottie recovers the gun and, in a rage, fires several shots, killing Chris and seriously wounding Ansel. Dottie turns the gun on Joe, telling him that she is pregnant. Joe appears overjoyed as he inches closer to Dottie. The film ends just as Dottie moves her finger to the trigger.