High school student Scott gains popularity among his classmates for his prowess on the soccer field, which he seeks to turn into an athletic scholarship. Although he possesses artistic talent, Scott continues to focus on soccer, even after a leg injury threatens to jeopardize his playing days. His best friend Jules harbors romantic feelings for him, but Scott resists her advances to prevent ruining their friendship. Also romantically interested in Scott is Bess, a shy student who recognizes his artistic abilities. Bess herself becomes a love interest of her classmate Jeffrey, although she does not return his feelings as she develops an unhealthy obsession with Scott.  An unknown stalker emerges in Scott's life, who begins demonstrating disturbing behavior. The stalker's actions turn violent when Mrs. Brown, a teacher who flirted with Scott, is attacked and seriously injured, while Jules is nearly killed by the stalker during a party. Scott suspects Bess is responsible, aware of her feelings for him, but recognizes that he cannot prove that she is his stalker. Later, while driving, Scott accidentally hits Bess' co-worker Andie and offers to take her home upon noticing that she sustained a leg injury. However, Andie knocks Scott out when he enters her house, revealing herself as the stalker, before trapping him in her basement.  Scott attempts to escape after he awakens, but Andie agitates his leg injury. After Andie kills her boss David when he arrives at the house, Scott makes another escape attempt and manages to crawl out of the basement, despite sustaining further leg injuries. Bess visits the house soon afterwards, where she discovers Scott and David's body, prompting Andie to attack her. Although Andie gets the upper hand, Jeffrey shows up to help overpower her and Scott kicks Andie into the basement, knocking her out.  Unable to play soccer because of his injuries, Scott begins to work on applying for art school while he enters into a relationship with Jules. Bess and Jeffrey also begin their own relationship. Andie is visited by her attorney Mr. Graham, to whom she admits her killings began at an early age and warns that she will not remain in custody for long.