13 years after the original series, Timmy Turner (Drake Bell) has grown into a 23-year-old man, but maintains a lifestyle of a 10-year-old to keep his fairy godparents, Cosmo and Wanda, and his godbrother, Poof. Timmy's refusal to mature greatly irritates his parents (who desperately encourage him to move out so that they can “sell their house and go on vacation”) and Jorgen von Strangle (Mark Gibbon), who is constantly scheming to entice Timmy into giving up his fairies by shooting an arrow at him to make him fall in love with someone yet fails every time.  One day, Timmy reunites with a girl from his childhood named Tootie (Daniella Monet), who had an obsessive crush on him for years. She has grown into a beautiful activist and Timmy falls for her instantly. Cosmo and Wanda desperately scheme to repel Tootie, afraid that he is finally growing up and may not need them anymore. Timmy is torn between his love for Tootie and his desire to keep his fairies.  Meanwhile, Timmy's schoolteacher, Denzel Crocker, teams up with an oil tycoon by the name of Hugh J. Magnate Jr in order to kidnap Timmy's fairies and use their magic for their own purposes. Magnate deceives and kidnaps Tootie while Crocker captures Cosmo, Wanda and Poof, imprisoning them in a device programmed to use their magic to grant anybody's wishes. However, Magnate betrays Crocker, wishes he falls into a bottomless ballpit, and tortures the fairies by adjusting the wish-granting machine to electrocute them each time a wish is made. Timmy comes to the rescue of both the fairies and Tootie and battles with both his enemy and a toy robot that Magnate brought to life with the fairies' magic. Timmy successfully frees everyone but is forced to give up his fairies, who vanish the moment he kisses Tootie.  Although Timmy is saddened deeply by the departure of Cosmo, Wanda, and Poof, he is happy to be free to finally pursue more mature endeavors, as he had longed to do. However, he learns from Jorgen that because of his courage, a new law was passed in Fairy World that will now permit him to keep his fairy godparents as long as he only makes unselfish wishes to help others. Tootie and Timmy then plan to start a charity organization in which they will make wishes that will mend all of the world's problems or travesties, flying away in a magical van, which turns around and flies towards the camera (in a direct parody of Back to the Future). Magnate is sent to a mental hospital after claiming that fairies exist, and his secretary becomes CEO of the company, turning it into an environmentally-friendly enterprise. The film ends with Crocker finally falling out of the ball pit, landing in front of the Turners' house, and walking away.