Agent Cody Banks (Frankie Muniz) attends summer camp, which is actually a secret training facility for undercover teenage agents in the CIA. When a group of soldiers attempt to abduct head counselor Victor Diaz, Cody helps him escape, mistaking the CIA operation for a training exercise. The CIA director informs Cody that Diaz stole disks containing plans for a secret mind-control device, and sends Cody to recapture him.  In the United Kingdom, Cody poses as a summer orchestra student at the Kenworth estate to spy on owner Lord Duncan Kenworth, suspected of working with Diaz, supported by his handler, Derek (Anthony Anderson) and Kumar (Rod Silvers), Derek's right-hand man, who are disguised as a chef hired by Lady Josephine Kenworth and a taxi driver respectively. Whilst keeping his mission a secret from his fellow students, Cody sneaks around the estate and confirms that Diaz and Duncan are working together and that they have a working prototype of the mind control device.  The next day, Cody breaks into a lab owned by Duncan, where he sees the finished device: a microchip inserted as a filling into a tooth cavity by dentist Santiago. Shortly afterward Cody and Derek chase Diaz, armed with a rocket gun, through London streets, but Cody is captured by the Metropolitan Police Service and taken to Scotland Yard. He is later freed by Emily (Hannah Spearritt), a fellow student who, similar to Cody, is actually an undercover British Scotland Yard Secret Intelligence Service. While Emily is distracted, Diaz's henchmen kidnap Cody and implant him with the microchip.  Under Duncan, Santiago, and Diaz's influence, Cody meets the CIA director on a London bus who is then also converted. Unbeknownst to them and Cody, this is witnessed by Emily. Emily enlists the help of Derek to get the microchip out of Cody. After knocking out Cody, Derek carefully cuts up one of Cody's gadgets, exploding Mentos mints, into a precisely minuscule amount to safely remove it. The group later realizes Diaz's plan: to implant all of the world leaders, who are all in London for a G7 summit at Buckingham Palace.  Deducing that with the CIA director under Diaz's control, they may be put on a most wanted list, Cody, Derek, and Emily infiltrate the party before the summit. There, they realize that most of the dignitaries have already been implanted and Duncan was appointed director of the Royal Mint by the British Prime Minister. They explain the truth to the other students, who perform for the guests and urge them to keep the world leaders from attending the G7 summit. They later proceed to do so with an impromptu but rousing performance of War, whilst Cody, Emily, and Derek search for the villains. Derek is implanted with the microchip and is set on Cody by Santiago. Before Santiago can kill him through Derek, Emily finds and subdues him, disabling the mind control software and rescuing the U.S. president, who was to be implanted.  Shortly after Cody kicks out Derek's microchip, the two of them remove the CIA director's microchip. Diaz attempts to flee, but he is captured by Cody in the Queen's gift room. Duncan also attempts to escape but is tripped by Trivial Jenkins, his apparently senile and blind butler, who turns out to be Emily's handler. Duncan is arrested with Diaz and Santiago.  After the villains are arrested, Cody sets off to return to America, and both he and Emily promise to keep in contact. Alongside Cody returning to America as a reward, Derek also returned to the camp and replaced Diaz as head counselor. Cody's parents pick him up, completely oblivious to the summer camp. Alex, Cody's younger brother tries to eat a few of his explosive Mentos, but Cody tosses them into the pond where they explode harmlessly.