Note: The following plot is highly inaccurate compared to the movie. Completely disregard it until someone can update it accordingly.  Jimmy Ray and Annie Ray were siblings living in a small town in the Midwest. They had been living a quiet life until one fateful day when Whit showed up, their simple routine changed drastically. It became a fight to stay one step ahead of him as he began to try and drag them into his criminal enterprise. With limited resources, the siblings had to use what little they had to keep Whit from becoming too powerful. Annie's condition was deteriorating by the day, and she was too weak to fight. Jimmy had to find a way to save her, and he would do whatever it took even if it jeopardized his own life. It seemed like all hope was lost until the local sheriff discovered Whit's plan. With his help, Jimmy and Annie were able to confront Whit and put an end to his reign of terror. They were able to have the last few months of Annie's life filled with love and happiness. The siblings were able to overcome all odds and prove that no matter what obstacles life throws at you, there is always a way to make it through. He was always asking questions and seemed to know too much about them.  Jimmy was shocked to find Annie living in a rundown apartment and struggling to make ends meet. He was determined to make her last year the best it could possibly be and worked hard to save up enough money to move her into a nicer apartment and pay her medical bills. He also took her out on trips and made sure she was able to do all the things she had always wanted to do. During this time, a mysterious stranger named Whit Price showed up in their small town claiming to be related to the Ray siblings. With nobody else left in their family, the Ray siblings welcomed him into their lives. Although he was a different kind of person who had an eerie presence about him, always asking questions and seemingly knowing too much about them, Jimmy and Annie allowed him to stay. Little did they know, Whit had been using their home as a base of operations for his criminal activities. The police eventually caught wind of Whit’s activities and arrested him.  Jimmy was determined to help his best friend, Annie, who was diagnosed with cancer. He had promised her that he would do whatever he could to make her last year of life the best it could be. He stayed by her side through her treatments, and tried to lift her spirits with trips to the park, a new hobby, and other activities. Though Jimmy was able to bring some joy to Annie's days, he couldn't help but feel guilty for not being able to do more for her. He also felt guilty for not being able to be there for her during her painful treatments and the difficult moments. He was determined to keep his promise and help her live her last year to the fullest. Jimmy took Annie on vacations, to the movies, and out to dinner. He also gave her presents that she had always wanted but never got. He did everything he could to make her happy and to create memories that she could cherish. Despite all of Jimmy's efforts, the cancer took its toll and Annie passed away. Though he was devastated, Jimmy was grateful that he was able to fulfill his promise and give Annie the best last year of her life. He was comforted in knowing that she was able to experience the joy of life with him one last time.  Annie had never heard of Whit Price, but when she met him, she quickly realized that there was a vendetta between him and the Ray siblings. Whit had been a high school teacher who was highly respected by his students, but he had lost his job due to the Ray siblings' astounding academic excellence. It was clear that Whit was determined to get his revenge, and so he plotted to take their lives. He soon set out to murder them with a sharp knife he had retrieved from his apartment. Fortunately, the police were alerted and they managed to intervene in time. Although Whit had attempted to take the life of the Ray siblings, Schmidt had doubts that he could have actually carried out the kill. The Ray siblings were eventually convicted of harboring a fugitive and sentenced to a year in prison. Annie was shocked to learn of the events that had transpired and was glad that the police had managed to intervene in time.  The convicted on the recently returned to the police force after a stint in prison, Jimmy and Annie were arrested and taken in for questioning at the police station. They nervously shuffled into the interrogation room, glancing around the sterile, intimidating environment. Sitting across from them at the table was a formidable figure, Whit Price. As an experienced detective, he had dealt with cases like theirs before, and he seemed to have the upper hand. Jimmy and Annie could not hide the fear and confusion in their faces. Despite feeling overwhelmed, they stayed committed to their story. They had no idea that Price had a shady past - a criminal who had returned to the police force after being incarcerated. His impressive arrest track record gave him a reputation, and his sharp mind made it hard for anyone to beat him during questioning. Despite this challenge, Jimmy and Annie had to stay true to their statements if they were to have hope of escaping jail time.  Although Jimmy and Annie were gone, the justice system had prevailed and the man who had taken them away was now behind bars for his heinous crimes. Jimmy's experience was life-changing and he was determined to make the most of it. Though the tragedy was painful, Jimmy found happiness in the time he shared with Annie and the memories they made together. His newfound determination led him to start his own business, and as his success grew, his story became an inspiring one. Whit, the person who took Jimmy and Annie away, was eventually brought to justice and arrested for his crimes. During the investigation, it was revealed that Whit had also killed the Ray siblings' innocent friend. This sent shockwaves throughout the community and left many feeling unsafe. The devastating tragedy had taken three innocent lives, but through the justice system, some solace was found knowing that the person responsible was now behind bars and could no longer hurt anyone else. Jimmy's experience had changed him forever and he was grateful for the second chance he had been given.