Dorri Lawrence (Rachael Leigh Cook) is an actress and singer who resides in Hollywood, California. She has undiagnosed schizophrenia, which causes problems in her career. After another concert goes wrong due to her untreated disease, she is sent to get help for her schizophrenia.  Meanwhile, Mark Deloach (Jonathan Tucker) is a rich, high school kid miles away, attending a Catholic school. Although shy around girls and a good kid, he takes part in underage drinking. His brother, Gregory, who has secret sexual rendezvous with the prestigious Sue Dubois (Agnes Bruckner), has one of their dirty notes blamed on him. He and a buddy of his decide to pay him back by taking Sue back to her mother and reveal what's been going on with her and Gregory which they knew she will disapprove. In the process, a car crash occurs, resulting in the injury of both Sue and Father Concoff (Ed Begley Jr.), the principal of their high school.  Sue's mother, Mrs. Dubois (Carrie Fisher), decides to press charges against Mark. However, a deal is made to have Mark serve in the Marine Corps instead of jail time.  Mark departs to recruit training at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in Parris Island and finds that Staff Sergeant Skeer (Val Kilmer) has taken an interest in him as Mark is using the Corps to escape jail time. Eventually, Mark satisfies the tough Senior Drill Instructor and officially becomes a Marine.  Once back home, he finds himself cutting ties with his friends and befriends Sue, who is now in a half way house, and Dorri, who is her roommate. He also apologizes to Father Concoff, who accepts his apology, but the latter is still angry with what occurred. Mark and Dorri set a date with each other to go to a dance, but she doesn't get to go. Mark leaves her a gift. Later, he and Dorri go out on a date, and Mark loses his virginity to her.  Dorri and Mark keep in contact through letters and phone calls, but eventually Dorri's illness worsens, and she loses touch with reality. Friends and family beg Mark to help Dorri get treatment, but he opposes any suggestion that might separate them. Eventually, an intervention support group keeps the two away from each other.  Mark is deployed to overseas action, and he is injured in the bombing of the Marine Barracks in Beirut in 1983. He returns home with an honorable discharge. Apart for two years, Dorri contacts Mark in a hospital where he has been recuperating. They plan to marry and start a new life together.