Two years after the events in Bangkok, Leslie Chow escapes confinement during a prison riot in Thailand. Meanwhile, Alan Garner causes a multi-car freeway pileup after he purchases a giraffe and accidentally decapitates it on a low overpass. Alan's father Sid, upset about the incident and furious that Alan will not take responsibility for his actions, dies of a heart attack mid-lecture. At the funeral, Alan's brother-in-law Doug Billings informs Phil Wenneck and Stu Price that Alan has been off his ADHD medication and is out of control. The group attends an intervention in which Alan agrees to visit a rehabilitation facility in Arizona where he can seek treatment as long as the "Wolfpack" take him there.  Phil's minivan is rammed off the road by a rental truck and the Wolfpack is taken hostage. They are later confronted by crime lord Marshall, with "Black Doug" as his head enforcer. He tells them that a few weeks after their shenanigans in Las Vegas, Chow hijacked half of a $42 million gold heist, and, seeing how Alan has been the only one to communicate with Chow during his imprisonment, deduced that they could locate him and retrieve the gold. Marshall takes Doug as Insurance and gives the others three days to find Chow, or else Doug will be killed.  Alan sets up a meeting with Chow in Tijuana, where Stu and Phil will hide and attempt to drug him. However, Alan accidentally reveals their location and Chow forces them to confess they are working for Marshall. Chow explains his plan to retrieve the stolen gold from the basement of a Mexican villa he previously owned.  They break into the house and successfully retrieve the gold, but Chow double-crosses them, locking them in the basement, rearming the security system and escaping in Phil's minivan. They are arrested, but mysteriously released from the police station. They are picked up by a limousine and taken back to the same villa they helped Chow break into, where they see Marshall & Doug. They learn that Chow had lied to them: the villa was in fact Marshall's the whole time and the gold they stole was the other half Chow did not get from Marshall. He spares the group for the oversight but kills "Black Doug" after his mishap with the drug deal from the first film and reminds them of their now two-day deadline.  They track Phil's phone, which was left in the minivan, and find it left outside a pawn shop in Las Vegas. The owner, Cassie, tells them that Chow traded a gold brick for only $18,000, far less than its actual $400,000 value and gives them a business card for an escort service Chow is using. Using Stu's former lover Jade as their contact, they learn that Chow is barricaded in the penthouse suite of Caesars Palace. Phil and Alan sneak into his suite from the roof, but Chow escapes, jumping from the balcony and parachuting down to the Strip. Stu catches up to Chow and locks him in the trunk of Marshall's limousine. They take the gold and meet with Marshall, who releases Doug when they reveal they cannot secure the original half as Chow lost it all in Bangkok. Although Marshall had promised not to harm Chow, he shoots up the trunk of the car, presumably killing him.  However, Alan had given Chow a fighting chance to escape from the trunk through a backseat compartment just moments earlier and armed him with a gun. As soon as Marshall discovered the trunk was empty, Chow emerges from the limo moonroof and kills Marshall and his bodyguard, but spares Phil, Stu, and Doug because Alan saved his life. He offers Alan a bar of gold as a gift, but Alan turns him down and ends their friendship because of Chow's unhealthy influence on the group. As Chow sadly watches them leave, they go to retrieve Phil's minivan from the pawnshop, but Alan chooses to stay and makes a date with Cassie. Six months later, shortly before getting married, Alan resigns from the Wolfpack.  In a mid-credits scene, the Wolfpack plus Cassie appear to have staged another wild party that they can't remember. Stu awakens to find himself wearing a pink lady's thong and now has breast implants. Alan remembers that the wedding cake was a gift from Chow, who emerges from the bathroom naked, carrying a katana. The chain-smoking Bangkok monkey drops from the ceiling onto Stu, startling him.