While trying to secure a bathroom key at a coffee shop, Bea, a law student at Boston University, meets Ben, who works in finance at Goldman Sachs. The two have an instant connection, and spend the day together, ultimately falling asleep together on Ben's couch. In the morning, Bea leaves without waking him. She reconsiders and returns to the apartment, only to overhear Ben insulting her while talking to his friend Pete. The two do not see each other again for six months, only to cross paths when Bea's sister Halle begins dating Pete's sister Claudia. The two are frosty towards each other, each blaming the other for their date ending poorly.  Halle and Claudia later become engaged, and plan a wedding in Sydney. Bea, who has broken up with her fiancé and secretly dropped out of law school, is dismayed to find that Ben is not only on the same flight to Australia as her, but that the two will both be staying at Claudia and Pete's parents' house in the days leading up to the wedding.  Bea and Ben's acrimony begins to frustrate the other members of the wedding party, compounded by the appearance of Ben's ex-girlfriend Margaret and Bea's ex-fiancé Jonathan. While Bea's parents attempt to push her to reconcile with Jonathan, the other attendees devise a plan to get Bea and Ben together to ensure the wedding goes off smoothly.  Bea quickly sees through the scheme, and makes a deal with Ben to pretend that the two of them are together in order to make Margaret jealous and get Bea's parents to stop pushing her to make up with Jonathan. Early efforts to sell the relationship are unsuccessful, until a party on a boat, where Bea and Ben dance together and reenact a scene from the film Titanic, which ends in Bea falling into Sydney Harbour. Ben jumps in after Bea, and the two have a conversation while waiting for rescue on a buoy together. She tells him that she has withdrawn from law school, and they make a date to sightsee at the Sydney Opera House together. After returning to the house, the two have sex, but Bea suggests offhandedly that her recent actions have all been mistakes, disappointing Ben. Ben slips away in the night, subsequently disheartening Bea.  The morning of the wedding, Margaret asks Bea for her blessing to rekindle things with Ben. She assents, claiming that the two of them are only situationally involved. He indirectly reveals to Bea's parents, through a conversation with Pete, that she has secretly quit law school, leaving her feeling betrayed.  After overhearing Halle and Claudia arguing, Ben convinces Bea to pretend to reconcile for the sake of the wedding. The ceremony goes smoothly but, during the reception, she sees Margaret kissing him and leaves in tears, heading to the Opera House. Ben, however, rejects Margaret, saying that he no longer has feelings for her, and was wrongfully stuck on a memory. The wedding party convinces him to chase after Bea, and he once again jumps into the harbor, convincing the rescue helicopter that retrieves him to fly him to the Opera House.  Ben apologizes to Bea, telling her that he left because he did not want their relationship to become another regret. They reconcile, and return to the reception as a couple, where Halle and Claudia reveal that their argument was yet another ruse to get the two back together. Meanwhile, Jonathan and Margaret enter a relationship.