In 1938 London, the highly successful and popular theater actress Julia Lambert is growing disillusioned with her career as she approaches middle age, prompting her to ask her husband, stage director Michael Gosselyn, and his financial backer Dolly de Vries to close her current production to allow her time to travel abroad. They persuade her to remain with the play throughout the summer. Always hovering in the background and offering counsel is the spirit of her mentor, Jimmie Langton, the theatrical manager who gave Julia her start and made her a star. Julia confesses to Evie, her personal maid, dresser and confidante, that she would love to let herself go and retire so she can stop eating salad and drink as much beer as she likes.  Michael introduces her to Tom Fennel, an enterprising American, who confesses his deep appreciation of her work. Though she loves her husband, Julia misses the passion they once had, and is anxious to fill the void left by her former lover, Lord Charles, who has recently broken off their relationship.  Julia embarks on a passionate affair with the young man and begins to support him so he may enjoy the glamorous lifestyle to which she has introduced him. Their relationship revives her, sparking a distinct change in her personality.  Michael suggests they invite Tom to spend time at their country estate, where he can become better acquainted with their son, Roger, who is only slightly younger. At a party there, Tom meets aspiring actress Avice Crichton, and, when Julia sees him flirting with the pretty young woman, she becomes jealous and anxious and angrily confronts him. He slowly reveals himself to be a callous, social-climbing, gold-digging gigolo, but Julia is reluctant to end the affair.  Avice, now romantically involved with Tom, asks him to bring Julia to see her perform in a play in the hope the actress will induce her husband to cast her in a supporting role in Julia's upcoming project. The play is dreadful, and Avice is not much better. Backstage, Julia compliments her even-worse co-star and barely acknowledges Avice, although she promises to tell Michael about her. Afterwards, she forces Tom to admit he loves Avice and she is heartbroken when he does, then tells Julia he is "fond" of her. She pretends to be gracious as their affair ends, and she assures him she will insist the ingenue be cast in her next play.  When Julia's performance in her current play begins to suffer from her personal discontent, Michael closes the production, so Julia visits her mother and her Aunt Carrie in Jersey, where Lord Charles comes to visit her. Julia suggests a romantic tryst, and he gently tells her that he's gay. The two share a laugh and agree to remain close friends. Meanwhile, back in London, Avice auditions for Michael and is cast in a key supporting role.  Julia returns home to begin rehearsals for the new play. Shortly after, she learns from her son that Avice has been one of Michael's casual trysts. Still, she is uncharacteristically solicitous toward the girl, making suggestions that place her in the spotlight and insisting her own wardrobe be drab to allow Avice to shine.  On opening night, Julia waits for a crucial scene with only she and Avice, then discards her drab wardrobe and appears onstage in an extravagant ensemble. She improvises her lines and movements on the stage, confusing and embarrassing Avice, who soon realizes that is Julia's intention and quickly recovers, even garnering laughter and applause from the audience. Julia then improvises a dramatic, comedic speech in which her character confronts Avice's for pursuing affairs with both "Ben" (Tom) and "Sir Phillip" (Michael), then demands she choose between them. Avice is stunned and left on stage weeping and defeated by Julia as she triumphantly ends her monologue and leaves the stage to enthusiastic applause.  Afterward, Michael confronts Julia and tells her she was magnificent. They embrace happily. Michael then visits Avice, who is throwing a tantrum in her dressing room, cursing Julia's name, and tells her that they're going to add Julia's ending to the play, then reminds her that she's just signed a contract for several weeks of performances. Tom, unsettled by Avice's screaming, quietly slips out.  Instead of attending the opening night party, Julia goes to her favorite restaurant, declaring she wants to dine "quite alone" and gleefully enjoys a glass of beer.