The film opens with a couple, Talia and Erik Harson, having sex. After a shower, Erik finds "you're next" written on the window in Talia's blood; her body is lying dead on the ground. An attacker wearing a lamb mask kills Erik with a machete.  Erin accompanies her boyfriend, Crispian Davison, to his family reunion at their vacation home in rural Missouri. Present are Crispian's parents Aubrey and Paul, Crispian's older brother Drake and his wife Kelly, Crispian's younger siblings Felix and Aimee, and their partners, Zee and Tariq, respectively.  During dinner, someone shoots crossbow bolts through the window, one of which hits Tariq and kills him. The survivors discover that their cell phone reception has been jammed. Aimee runs outside for help but runs into a garrote wire which slices her throat, killing her. Another intruder in a fox mask murders Aubrey with a machete, leaving the words "you're next" in blood on the wall.  Kelly flees the house, going to Erik's house nearby, where she finds Erik's corpse. Lamb Mask kills her by driving an ax into her head. Crispian leaves the house to look for help. Tiger Mask attacks Erin but she crushes his skull with a meat tenderizer.  Paul finds sleeping bags, food wrappers, and bottles of urine in the closet, indicating the killers have been staying in the house for some time. Fox Mask slits his throat, killing him. It is revealed that Felix and Zee hired the assassins to murder the family so they could collect their inheritance. Lamb Mask finds Tiger Mask's corpse and goes into a rage. He discovers a wounded Drake but retreats after Erin stabs him with a screwdriver. Erin sets up nail traps, explaining to Zee that she grew up in a survivalist compound where she learned combat and survival skills. Felix kills Drake out of pity by stabbing him with screwdrivers.  Erin jumps through a window to escape Fox Mask, injuring her leg. Lamb Mask is injured by one of her nail traps. Erin overhears an argument between Felix, Zee, Fox Mask, and Lamb Mask, revealing that Lamb Mask and Tiger Mask were brothers. She is able to ambush and kill Lamb Mask by stabbing him.  Realizing she cannot outrun Fox Mask with a wounded leg, she sets a trap at the front door where an axe would fall and kill anyone who opens the door. She lures Fox Mask into the basement and kills him with a log. Zee and Felix attempt to kill Erin, but she kills Felix by shredding his head with a blender before stabbing Zee. Felix's cell phone rings and Erin answers without speaking. Believing he is speaking to Felix, Crispian reveals his involvement in the scheme. Erin confronts him when he returns. Crispian explains that she was never meant to be targeted and attempts to bribe her into staying quiet. Horrified that he would sacrifice his family for money, she kills him by stabbing him in the neck and eye.  A police officer arrives and shoots Erin in the shoulder, having seen her kill Crispian. He attempts to enter the house and falls victim to Erin's front door trap, with the axe swinging at his head just as the movie cuts to a blood-splattered "You're next".