A teacher who cares is not welcome at Hamilton High School. Former soldier, Sam Decker, is a teacher who does not care anymore. He is giving up. He returned to his inner-city neighborhood after serving in the military in the former Yugoslavia and the Gulf War to teach at the toughest school in town. He needed to make a difference at Hamilton High.  Sam submits his resignation because he is dissatisfied and enraged by a system that does not work. However, on the day he does, he performs one final detention duty with the school's most difficult students. Everyone is having a bad day.  However, Hamilton High is about to become a very real battlefield when a well-organized group of murderers with automatic weapons and explosives invades the school after hours to hide $300 million worth of heroin that they have hijacked. The strategy is to prepare two police cars at the school's auto shop, hide the drugs in hidden compartments, and drive away safely.  The invaders, led by brilliant but cruel Chester Lamb, are surprised to find that Sam and the kids from the detention room are still inside the school.  The hunt is on as Lamb's henchmen relentlessly follow the teacher and students through the school's hallways and classrooms while Lamb watches them on the surveillance cameras and uses the security system against his prey.  Sam and the kids work together to defeat the armed robbers and thwart Lamb's meticulously planned crime. They come across a sinister plot that includes the police department and even the highest levels of government along the way.  School security guards and paid local police were supposed to ensure that the school was empty after hours. However, Sam and his juvenile offenders were not considered by anyone.  Gloria Waylon (Kata Dobó), the punks Viktor (Joseph Scoren), and Alek (Anthony J. Mifsud), all members of Lamb's crew, continue to stalk the students throughout the school.  However, Sam still has some tricks to show the kids and some lessons to learn from them. The lesson for tonight at Hamilton High School is survival.