In 1892 Fall River, Massachusetts, 32-year-old Lizzie Borden resides with her domineering father, Andrew; stepmother, Abby, and elder sister, Emma. While the Borden family are prominent members of the community, Lizzie's day-to-day life is under the strict control of her father. One day, an Irish immigrant, Bridget "Maggie" Sullivan, moves in to the Borden residence to work as a servant. That night, Lizzie attends an opera and has a seizure during the performance. After she recovers, she and Bridget quickly form a close bond as Lizzie attempts to give the illiterate Bridget a formal education.  On several occasions, the household is disrupted by trespassers and written threats, which Lizzie believes are connected to her father's recent acquisition of land. Lizzie overhears a discussion between her father and her uncle John, the town constable and brother of Lizzie and Emma's deceased mother, during which Andrew imparts that his estate will be bestowed on Abby rather than his daughters. The next morning, Lizzie raids Abby's jewelry casket and hawks its contents at a local pawnbroker. Enraged by the robbery, Andrew kills Lizzie's pet pigeons, which he has Bridget prepare for dinner.  One morning, Bridget becomes distraught after receiving a letter from Ireland disclosing her mother's death. Late that night, Lizzie hears her father sexually assaulting Bridget in the attic servants' quarters. Lizzie smashes a hand mirror in her bedroom and sprinkles the glass at Bridget's door, causing Andrew to cut his feet when leaving.  Lizzie and Bridget's bond grows increasingly close, and with Bridget able to write, the two leave letters for one another around the house. Their relationship eventually becomes romantic. Lizzie also discovers that her Uncle John has been leaving the threatening notes; when she confronts him about them, he assaults her, which Bridget witnesses. One afternoon, Andrew spies Lizzie and Bridget having sex in the barn. He later calls Lizzie an abomination and forbids her from associating with Bridget, whom he intends to dismiss. That night, Lizzie burns her father's will in the kitchen stove. The next day, August 4, Andrew and Abby's bodies are found in the house, both bludgeoned with a hatchet. Law enforcement swiftly suspects Lizzie is responsible, though Emma proclaims her sister's innocence. Lizzie is formally charged with both murders and stands a closed trial. Bridget visits Lizzie in jail and asks her cease all contact before boarding a train to Montana.  A climactic flashback shows both Lizzie and Bridget carrying out the murders: That morning, Lizzie strips nude and hides in Abby's bedroom while Andrew goes for his morning walk. Bridget brings Abby a doctored telegram notifying her of a friend's illness. When Abby rushes to her room to prepare to leave, Lizzie bludgeons her multiple times in the face and head with a hatchet. Bridget, outside washing windows, is sickened by the sounds and vomits. Lizzie cleans herself and redresses. When Andrew returns, Lizzie tells him she is going outside to pick fruit. Meanwhile, Bridget undresses and confronts Andrew in the den, armed with a hatchet, but hesitates. Lizzie re-enters the house, takes the hatchet from Bridget and kills Andrew herself. Afterwards, Lizzie butchers a pigeon with the murder weapon, smearing it with the bird's blood before sawing off the blade and hiding it in a pail in the basement. She then burns the handle and her blood-spattered dress in the kitchen stove.  Lizzie is ultimately acquitted of the murders and lives the remainder of her life in Fall River, ostracized by the community and estranged from Emma. She dies at age 66 and leaves the majority of her estate to the local humane society. Bridget remains in Montana for the rest of her life where she eventually dies, aged 82.