Chris is delaying signing divorce papers from Jamie when he bumps into Sky during a late night shop.  He comes to her rescue by offering a ride when her taxi is cancelled.  On arriving at the motel she is staying at, she hesitates to leave saying that her roommate Lisa is a handful due to drugs and can be disruptive when not asleep. Chris suggests she could wait at his for a few hours and then he'll bring her back. After enjoying each other's company for a few hours, they make love and Sky heads to the motel in the morning where Lisa is furious.  Chris finds Sky at her workplace and walking back to his car catches someone trying to break in and an altercation follows. Due to a broken leg and cast, with Chris's  lack of mobility Sky offers to help care for him. He gives her the passcodes for his house which is powered and secured by Watchdog a security programme he wrote for his company that his wife had always came first and led to the breakdown of his marriage, even though he had sold it as an attempt to prove it wasn't.   Sky goes to the motel to pick up some things and Lisa suggests she can't move out as she knows things. Ronald their landlord fed up with excuses on their overdue rent tries to get access to their rooms and with no answer lets himself in and is horrified to find Lisa dead in the bath. He gives the police Sky's name but they find nobody of those details on file.   On hearing Chris broke his leg Jamie suggests an impromptu visit on Friday to allow their daughter Willow to cheer him up.  Chris feeling more positive and loved up finally feels able to say he'll sign the divorce papers for her to collect as well.   The next day Chris wakes up unable to find his phone but sees on the tv news that Lisa is dead. Sky arrives with food and won't discuss his phone until after they eat but during the conversation she drops that she killed Lisa and only stayed there 2 months to be able to build up his very specific schedule pattern via a telescope.  Knowing that his cleaner isn't due for a number of days, she locks all the doors via the app on his phone that she took and tasers Chris.   Waking tied to a wheelchair, Sky requests his bank passwords by drilling through his broken leg. After Sky transfers millions she stops him from attempting to escape by threatening to hurt his daughter.  Meanwhile Raymond is cleaning the rooms, spots and the telescope and spies on a neighbour doing naked yoga then pans around to Chris's house and spots Sky.    It transpires Sky was working with theft attempt man and that the broken leg was on purpose as he enters to begin removing property. Left alone in the house, Raymond breaks in but rather than immediately helping Chris he blackmails for a reward and in the process of freeing him Sky returns after being alerted on the app. As she chases Raymond through the house and kills him with a samurai sword, Chris frees the rest of his bonds and escapes on a snowbike but is catapulted off after hitting a rock. Being picked up  by a driver he finally thinks he's free until he realises he's being driven back to his house to a blood-soaked Sky.   The driver is her step-father Sebastian and they started a relationship after Sky's Mother abruptly died. She tells Chris that it's a shame he was a con as he's the better lover and Chris says she could have had it all if she hadn't turned out to be a psychopath.  The pair want millions in bonds that need face to face access at a bank and cut-off Chris's thumb so that Sebastian can pretend to be Chris by using a sling with the hidden digit. Before they leave, Jamie and Willow arrive unexpectedly and get locked into a room with Chris. Realising Willow is small enough to access a vent to get them out she crawls out.  Once alone, Chris says to Jamie what the thieves are after and Jamie announces the bonds aren't in that safebox as they are now in her private box which means they'll be back soon.   Willow uses the passcode to get into the house just before Sky and Seb arrive back. Chris and Seb fight but Sky suddenly chooses to shoot Seb in the hope her and Chris can make up.  Chris stabs Sky in the shoulder and grabs the phone and hides. He sends an SOS signal to the police whilst Sky hunts him and uses the app to access music and lights to distract her. Sky finds him and during their fight Jamie runs out to assist but also gets hurt. Cowering with Sky approaching they hear a gunshot and Sky falls to the floor.