Philosophy professor Abe Lucas joins the faculty at a small-town New England college campus. He is experiencing an existential crisis, depressed, sees no meaning in his life, and drinks excessively. Despite this, he catches the eye of two women: chemistry professor Rita Richards, and Jill Pollard, one of his students.   Jill has a serious boyfriend and lives with her parents. Rita lives with her husband, but is dissatisfied with her marriage. Abe chooses to sleep with Rita but is careful to have only a platonic relationship with Jill. His depression becomes even more apparent when he cannot get an erection during his first sexual experience with Rita.  At lunch in a diner, Abe and Jill overhear a conversation in the next booth; a woman says she will lose her children in a custody battle because of an unethical judge in family court. He is troubled by the injustice and decides to secretly help the woman by murdering the judge. Abe reasons he is unlikely to be caught because he does not know the judge.   Having found a new purpose in life, Abe's depression is lifted. He becomes happier and is able to have sex with Rita. He follows the judge for a while to learn his habits. After his weekly jog, the judge always buys a juice and sits on a bench to cool down. Abe decides that the best way to kill him is to poison him. He steals a key to the college's chemistry lab from Rita where he procures cyanide. He buys a juice from the same place the judge stops at, puts the poison in his juice cup, sits down on the same bench, then switches the juices while the judge is distracted.   The judge dies from cyanide poisoning. Abe feels reborn, telling himself he has finally done something worthwhile by ridding the world of an evil man. His and Jill's friendship blossoms into a romance. Jill's boyfriend Roy learns of the relationship and breaks up with her.  Despite Abe's careful planning, Jill and Rita, who are friendly, begin to suspect Abe's involvement in the murder after piecing together clues, such as the missing key and Abe's presence in the chemistry lab. Rita decides that even if he is guilty, she wants to leave her husband and live with Abe.  Jill breaks into Abe's residence via a window and discovers damning notes. When she confronts him, Abe acknowledges his mistake. She chooses to call it quits on their romance. Jill pressures Abe to go to the police when an innocent guy is accused of the crime, threatening that she would denounce him.   Abe, who has lately begun to appreciate life, tries to murder Jill by shoving her down an elevator shaft, but trips and falls down the shaft to his death. Jill, who has reunited with Roy, is shown staring out to sea and thinking on her experiences with Abe towards the conclusion of the film.