Lance Clayton is a single father and high school English teacher who dreams of becoming a famous writer, but his previous novels have all been rejected by publishers. His 15-year-old son Kyle is a sex-obsessed, underachieving misanthrope who is a student at the school where Lance teaches an unpopular poetry class.   Kyle's poor academic performance and vile behavior gain the attention of the school principal, who advises Lance to transfer Kyle to a special-needs school. One night, Lance discovers that Kyle has died in an autoerotic asphyxiation accident in his bedroom. To salvage his son's dignity, Lance stages Kyle's death as a suicide. He hangs Kyle in a closet and posts a fake suicide note on his body.  A classmate later obtains the suicide note from police records and publishes it in the school newspaper. The note strikes a chord with the students and faculty and many students suddenly claim to have been friends with Kyle and are touched by how deep and intelligent he shows himself to be in his writings. Enjoying the attention his writing is finally receiving, Lance decides to write and publish a phony journal that was supposedly written by his son before his death.   Kyle becomes somewhat of a post-mortem cult phenomenon at the school, and Lance soon begins to receive the adoration that he has always desired. He becomes much more interesting to his girlfriend Claire, a fellow teacher, who had previously shown an interest in their younger colleague Mike. Andrew, Kyle's sole friend, finds Kyle's suicide note and journals highly uncharacteristic based on Kyle's personality when he was alive, but Lance brushes Andrew off when Andrew confronts him.  The journal soon attracts the attention of book publishers and Lance lands a television appearance on a nationally broadcast talk show. The school principal then decides to rename the school library in Kyle's honor. At the library dedication, Lance feels guilt for exploiting his son's death for his own benefit as well as hatred towards those feigning their fondness for Kyle. While giving a speech, Lance decides he can no longer continue the charade and confesses to everyone that Kyle's death was accidental, and that he wrote the suicide note and journal. Predictably, Lance is denounced by the students and faculty, including Claire, and simultaneously finally realizes it is better to be alone than to end up with people who make him feel all alone.   Despite now being despised by everyone, Lance nevertheless feels reborn and dives naked into the school's swimming pool. Outside, Andrew tells Lance that he knew the truth all along, but nevertheless enjoyed his writing and encourages him to keep writing. The two happily watch a zombie movie at Lance's home with his neighbor Bonnie.