Georgia Byrd is a shy, unassuming salesperson in the cookware department at Kragen's Department Store in New Orleans and a Baptist choir singer who longs to cook professionally. She privately records her dreams of a better life in a scrapbook labeled "Possibilities" enjoys replicating TV chef Emeril Lagasse's gourmet recipes, serving her creations to a neighbor while denying herself the pleasure of eating them.   During the Christmas season, while flirting with handsome co-worker Sean Williams, whom she has secretly featured in her scrapbook as her dream husband, Georgia bumps her head. Taken to the store's health center for a CT scan, she is told by the company physician that she has several brain tumors resulting from a rare terminal neurological disorder called Lampington's disease.   As her HMO plan does not cover the high cost of an operation, Georgia resigns herself to having only a few weeks to live. She quits her job, liquidates her assets, and sets off on a dream vacation at the deluxe Grandhotel Pupp in the Czech Republic's spa city of Karlovy Vary.  Free of inhibitions and determined to enjoy the final weeks of her life, Georgia checks into the Presidential Suite and buys a designer wardrobe in expensive boutiques. She then also makes extensive use of the hotel's spa facilities, attempts snowboarding and BASE jumping, enjoys succulent meals prepared by world-renowned Chef Didier, and wins a small fortune playing roulette in the casino.  Georgia impresses the hotel's staff, with the exception of the cantankerous guest services manager Ms. Gunther, with her naive manner and forthright kindness. She also mingles with some of the other guests, including Matthew Kragen, an arrogant self-help guru and the owner of the department store where she worked; Kragen's assistant/mistress Ms. Burns; and Louisiana power brokers Senator Dillings and Congressman Stewart. Kragen is wary of Georgia and suspects her of trying to sabotage his business, but the rest are charmed by her free spirit.  When Kragen bribes Ms. Gunther to dig up information about Georgia's background, she goes through her hotel suite. She finds a letter Georgia has written providing instructions for the disposal of her remains after her death. Moved by the letter and realizing Georgia's self-confidence and sunny optimism have touched everyone who has met her since her arrival, Ms. Gunther confesses to Georgia she snooped through her belongings and found the letter. She urges her to return home and spend her last days with those she loves.   Taking Ms. Gunther's advice, Georgia heads for the airport but discovers an avalanche has blocked the road. Unbeknownst to her, Sean, having learned of Georgia's diagnosis and ready to acknowledge his long-standing feelings for her, has flown to Europe and is in a taxi on the other side of the snowdrift, blocked from reaching her at the hotel.  Georgia returns to the hotel, and Sean leaves his taxi to hike across the snow on foot. Chef Didier invites her to assist him in the hotel's kitchen that night preparing an extravagant New Year's Eve feast and thanks her publicly at the party. Later, seated at dinner and incensed by the accolades and affection Georgia has received, Kragen tries to humiliate her to his companions by exposing her as a saleswoman in one of his stores, but Georgia confirms this and reveals her terminal illness.   Kragen's companions, disgusted by his insensitivity, embrace her and abandon him. Dejected and embarrassed, Kragen goes to an upper floor of the hotel and sits on the ledge, contemplating suicide. Georgia tries to dissuade this, suggesting if he were nicer and less driven by greed, he would be a happier person.  Sean arrives at the hotel just in time and joins Georgia on the ledge, confessing his affection for her and admitting he'd seen her scrapbook. In the lobby, Ms. Gunther finds a fax for Georgia stating she was misdiagnosed due to a faulty CT scanner and does not have Lampington's disease. Ms. Gunther rushes up to the ledge to announce the good news.   Georgia and Sean return to New Orleans as a couple where they open a restaurant, Georgia's Joint, which is visited by Chef Didier and Emeril Lagasse.