In the deep jungles of Peru, a British explorer discovers an unknown species of bear. The bears are intelligent and have a deep fondness for marmalade. The explorer names them Lucy and Pastuzo and gives them his hat as he leaves, telling them that they are always welcome in London.  Forty years later, after an earthquake destroys their home, the two bears are forced to seek shelter with their orphaned nephew. Pastuzo is killed by a falling tree and Lucy encourages her nephew to travel to London; she moves into the Home for Retired Bears.  The young bear arrives in London after stowing away on a cargo ship and reaches Paddington Station. He meets the Brown family, who take him home and name him after the station they found him in. Henry Brown, the father, does not believe Paddington's story but his wife Mary, their two children, and their housekeeper Mrs Bird find Paddington endearing.  Paddington thinks he can find a home with the explorer who met Lucy and Pastuzo, but does not know his name. Mary takes Paddington to Samuel Gruber, an antique shop owner who discovers that the hat bears the stamp of the Geographers' Guild. Paddington learns from the Guild archive that an expedition to Peru was undertaken by an explorer named Montgomery Clyde but the Guild erased their record of it.   Meanwhile, hateful museum taxidermist Millicent Clyde kills and stuffs exotic animals to house them in the Natural History Museum. When she learns of Paddington's existence, she sets out to hunt him down. Scheming with the Browns' nosy next-door neighbour, Mr Curry, Millicent sneaks in while the Browns are out and attempts to capture Paddington; he defends himself but inadvertently starts a fire in the process. He tries to tell the Browns the truth, but no one believes him.  Paddington leaves and attempts to track down Montgomery Clyde himself, using the phone book to find the addresses of every "M. Clyde" in London. He finds Millicent's house, and learns that Montgomery, who was Millicent's father, died a long time ago. Millicent resents her father for losing his Guild membership after he refused to bring a Peruvian bear specimen home and opened a petting zoo. She tranquilizes Paddington and prepares to stuff him, but when Mr Curry discovers her true intentions, he warns the Brown family and they rescue him. When Millicent is about to shoot Paddington on the roof, he throws his marmalade sandwich at her, causing her to be swarmed by pigeons before Mrs Bird pushes her off.  In the aftermath, the Browns allow Paddington to stay in their house permanently. Millicent is arrested and sentenced to community service at her father's petting zoo. Paddington writes to Aunt Lucy, saying he is happy and has finally found a home.