In Italy 1978, Patrizia Reggiani is the office manager of her father's small trucking firm. At a party, she meets Maurizio Gucci, a law student and heir to a 50% interest in the Gucci fashion house through his father Rodolfo. Patrizia aggressively pursues the awkward Maurizio, charming him into love.  Rodolfo warns Maurizio that Patrizia is only after his wealth and tells him he will disinherit him if he marries Patrizia; Maurizio chooses her over his connection to Gucci, leaving the family. Patrizia and Maurizio marry, and he gets a job at the trucking company.  When Patrizia becomes pregnant, she considers her child as an avenue for familial reconciliation and lets that news slip to Maurizio's uncle Aldo who gets delighted thereby and takes the couple under his wing.  Aldo introduces Patrizia to his eccentric son Paolo, who aspires to be a designer within Gucci despite his lack of talent. Aldo helps Maurizio and a terminally ill Rodolfo reconcile shortly before the latter's death. Rodolfo writes Maurizio back into his will but fails to sign the document attesting him the 50% interest in Gucci shares before he dies, so Patrizia forges Rodolfo's signature on Rodolfo's updated testament.  Patrizia devises a plot to obtain controlling interest in Gucci by acquiring some of Aldo and Paolo's shares (the other 50%). She clashes with Aldo over the firm's clandestine sale of cheap "fake" Gucci products on the black market, and consults Giuseppina "Pina", a psychic, for guidance on how to manipulate Maurizio, who has little real interest in Gucci, into taking a more active role within the company.  Paolo acquires proof that Aldo has been evading taxes in the United States; he gives this to Patrizia in exchange for her promise that he will be allowed to design his own line. Aldo is arrested by the IRS and sentenced to a year and a day in prison. Patrizia lies to the Italian police that Paolo is not authorized to use the Gucci trademark, so they stop his fashion show by force. Patrizia and Maurizio ask Paolo to sell them his shares, but he rebuffs and cuts ties with them.  Italian police search Maurizio's, attempting to arrest him for forging Rodolfo's signature. His family flees to Switzerland, where Maurizio meets his old friend Paola Franchi. After an argument between Maurizio and Patrizia, he decides he is tired of his wife's influence on himself and the company. He  orders his wife and daughter to return to Italy and begins an affair with Paola, which Pina seemingly senses.  When Maurizio's business plans harm Gucci's firm, he seeks assistance from an equity company Investcorp, through which he hatches a scheme to acquire shares of the firm from the now-impoverished Paolo. As Aldo returns from prison and realizes what Paolo has done, Investcorp offers to buy him out, he refuses until Maurizio reveals himself as the deal's instigator, whereupon Aldo sells his shares and cuts contact with Maurizio.  Patrizia attempts a reconciliation with Maurizio, but he flatly ignores her. Later, he asks her for a divorce through his long-time assistant Domenico De Sole, which she flatly refuses. Maurizio recruits up-and-coming designer Tom Ford to revitalize the company's image through a new line. His products are successful, but Maurizio's poor management of Gucci compelled Investcorp's leaders to buy him out by 1995, replacing him with Tom and Domenico.  Patrizia eventually grows so furious with Maurizio that she asks Pina to help her assassinate him. Pina puts her in contact with two hitmen. A few days later, they shoot Maurizio to death in broad daylight outside his office. In the final scene, Patrizia takes her husband's last name when announcing herself before court, to stress that she still considers herself to be a Gucci even if the law does not.  Closing intertitles describe the fate of the remaining characters:  Patrizia, Pina, and the hitmen are sentenced to various long prison terms, following their incriminating of murder. Aldo died of prostate cancer in 1990, while Paolo died in poverty, shortly following the sale of their shares to Maurizio. Gucci is fully acquired by Investcorp, and successfully managed the fashion Firm to its success and fame. None of its actual founders, of the Gucci family remained at the company.