As a child, Ray Reiter was the sole survivor when a kraken, attacked his parents' boat. In the present, marine archaeologist Nicole and her assistants, Michael and Jenny are searching for a legendary opal and a Trojan death mask in the same area.  During an outing, Nicole's boat is attacked and the boat's captain is killed leaving everyone in a panic frenzy. The survivors are forced to return to shore and begin to fix their boat while searching for a new skipper. Ray, a sea creature hobbyist pays a visit after learning about the circumstances of the previous skipper's death on the news. While Nicole is suspicious, she allows Ray to join the team in return that he fixes her boat. Nicole's competitor, Maxwell Odemus arrives to taunt Nicole and then offer to join forces with her, but she (rightfully) declines as he tends to steal other people's archaeological finds to sell on the black market.  Eventually, Nicole and Ray find the likely spot for the opal and return to shore to prepare themselves for the retrieval mission.  That night, Maxwell has one of his goons, Ike pay off Michael to learn where Nicole and the crew are going, then has their boat burned. Recognizing the distress and broken-dreamed Nicole, Ray buys a new boat using his life savings, and the crew heads back out. Maxwell uses the co-ordinates acquired from Michael to drive out to the treasure spot and his group attack when Nicole's team arrive. Holding Michael, Jenny, and Sally hostage to force Nicole and Ray to cooperate and dive for the artifacts even though the squid is certainly waiting below, Maxwell gets Ike to shoot Michael, who dies not too long after.  Sally, Jenny and Nicole still are in a fish container that starts flooding from the kraken attacking the boat. Ray emerges from the water, and climbs onto the ship and frees Jenny, Sally, and Nicole and leave Michael's corpse. In the battle that ensues, the kraken kills Ike, Jenny, Sally and Maxwelll before being killed by Nicole and Ray. The boat sinks, while Nicole and Ray are safe, and Ray saved the mask. The opal is last seen at the bottom of the sea with infant squids and the film cuts into credits.  Alternate version The scene of Nicole's team being attacked by Maxwell's gang and being forced to dive for the artifacts is changed to Kate being killed by the squid underwater, the other members of Maxwell's gang attacking Ray and Nicole underwater after they found the opal, and Nicole being caught by Maxwell when she surface.  The scene of Michael being shot remains but for the reason of Nicole refusing to tell Maxwell where she kept the mask. The scene with Sally is slightly changed to a scene with only Sally removed. The scene of Nicole and Ray killing the giant squid is changed to only Ray killing the squid.