In New York, Ally is a student at New York University, and lives with her father, Neil, a New York City Police Department detective, in Queens. Tyler Hawkins audits classes at NYU and works at the university bookshop. He and his sister Caroline have a strained relationship with their workaholic businessman father, Charles.  One night, Tyler and his roommate Aidan get involved in somebody else's fight, and are arrested by Neil. Aidan calls Charles to bail Tyler out, but he does not stick around to have a conversation with his father. When Aidan sees Neil dropping Ally off, he realizes she is his daughter. So he approaches Tyler with the idea to get back at the detective by sleeping with and dumping Ally. She and Tyler go to dinner and continue seeing each other.  After noticing a tattoo on Tyler's chest reading "Michael," Tyler reveals to Ally that his brother Michael died by suicide years ago; Ally later reveals that her mother was mugged and fatally shot in front of her 10 years ago. Aidan turns up at Tyler's apartment, meets Ally for the first time, and convinces the pair to go to a party, where she drinks too much. The following morning, after her father hits her when she stands up to him, Ally flees back to Tyler's apartment, where the pair consummate their relationship.  Caroline, a budding 12-year-old artist, is featured in an art show, and Tyler tries to get their father to attend. When he fails to show up, Caroline is heartbroken, so Tyler confronts him in a boardroom filled with people. He accuses his father of willingly distancing himself from his children to avoid feeling the pain of losing another child, and father and son come to blows.  When Neil's partner recognizes Tyler with Ally on a train, Neil breaks into Tyler's apartment. Recognizing him, he finds out Tyler's initial reason for meeting Ally, and violently confronts him, which forces Tyler to confess to a distraught Ally. Aidan visits Ally at her father's home to explain it's his fault, and Tyler is genuinely in love with her.  Caroline is bullied by classmates at a birthday party where they cut a chunk of her hair off. Ally and Aidan visit Tyler's mother's apartment, where Caroline is sobbing. Tyler accompanies his sister back to school, and following further bullying, Tyler reacts violently and is arrested. Charles again bails out his son and tells Tyler that he will exert his power over the school's board of trustees to ensure that the bullies are forced to leave. Charles asks Tyler to meet his lawyers at his office.  Tyler spends the night with Ally, and they confess their love for each other. The next morning, Charles calls Tyler to let him know that he will be late, as he is taking Caroline to school; Tyler is happy that their dad is spending time with his sister, and tells him that he will wait in his office. He looks on Charles's computer, featuring a slideshow of pictures with Tyler, Michael, and Caroline when they were younger.  Caroline arrives at her classroom, where the teacher writes the date on the blackboard as Tuesday, September 11, 2001. Tyler looks out the window of his father's office, which is revealed to be located on the north edge of the 101st floor in the North Tower of the World Trade Center.  A voice-over of Tyler's diary declares his love for his brother Michael, forgiving him for killing himself. Tyler is buried next to Michael. Some time later, Caroline and Charles seem to have a healthy father-daughter relationship. Aidan, who has since gotten a tattoo of Tyler's name on his arm, is working hard in school, and Ally gets on the subway at the same spot where her mother was killed.