Puchi (Jennifer Lopez) talks about her late husband, salsa legend Héctor Lavoe "El Cantante De Los Cantantes" ("The singer of all the singers") (Marc Anthony), during a 2002 interview. Héctor Pérez leaves Puerto Rico, even though his father tries to persuade him not to go because if he does he'll lose a father. Héctor decides to go anyway against his father's will in an attempt to pursue his dreams. On his first night in the city he meets Eddie (Manny Pérez) and discovers the new sound of salsa flowing through the streets. He eventually becomes the lead singer in a salsa group performing in a bar. One night he is approached by salsa musicians Willie Colón (John Ortiz) and Johnny Pacheco. Johnny offers them a deal with Fania Records Company and Hector accepts. The company also suggests that he change his name to Héctor Lavoe. "Lavoe" meaning "the voice" in French.  Héctor is falling for Puchi, a girl he saw dancing at the club where he was allowed entry and also to perform by her brother Papo (Antone Pagán), the club manager. Papo invites Héctor to the sweet 16 party he is throwing at his apartment for his sister Puchi and there they get to speak further since noticing each other at the club and begin to further fall in love. He confesses to her that his mother died when he was young, his brother was killed the night he came to New York and that he didn't have many people in his life. She tells him that they'll take care of each other. It is revealed that Héctor was cheating on Puchi with another girl named Carmen. Puchi reveals that Carmen and she were pregnant with a baby of his at the same time. But she is the only woman of his life because he chose her. They eventually get married and have a son named Tito. On a night of hard partying, Héctor catches Eddie doing drugs and does so too. This will be the start of his drug addiction.  Through the years, after Héctor's consistent tardiness to gigs, Willie grows tired of Héctor's irresponsibility and decides to go solo. Héctor's drug and alcohol addiction continues to grow stronger and becomes very noticeable. Puchi is infuriated when she finds Tito eating alone and Héctor shooting up while the gas was on. She begs Héctor to quit the drugs and to turn his life around for their son and because he is always high and is missing out and she loves him.  One night, Puchi wakes up to Héctor sitting with a gun staring into space, suicidally depressed. In fear she sends him to rehab. Puchi can't help feeling extremely guilty when Héctor's sister Priscilla blames all of Héctor's problems on her. She later takes him out and he is put on medication. A jealous Héctor calls Puchi a whore and frequently accuses her of having affairs with many different men. Héctor maintains sobriety and takes his family to Puerto Rico for vacation. When Héctor tries to reconcile with his father after leaving against his will, he rejects Héctor. This causes him more pain. He is diagnosed with HIV and advises Puchi to get tested as well. He maintains sobriety for a while but soon has a relapse and goes back to his old ways. Puchi and Héctor fight often and it usually ends with him leaving the house and then coming back and apologizing to her.  Tito is killed when his friend accidentally shoots him while playing with the gun Héctor kept in the house. This scars Héctor for the rest of his life. In the interview, Puchi admits that Héctor was never the same after that, and he died along with their son. She says everyone expected too much from him.  Héctor confesses to Willie that he loves Puchi and that he wishes he would've done things differently, but it's too late and nothing is the same anymore. Willie encourages him to perform at a gig in Puerto Rico. At the concert, there is less than half of the audience due to bad managing and advertising. Still, he decides to perform for the few people who still showed up while it starts raining. He just couldn't hold in all the pain anymore. The depression and guilt are too much for Héctor to handle and it drives him to attempt suicide by jumping out a window. He survives the fall and lives another 5 years.  Puchi is seen in her new apartment, listening to a voice mail from Hector, wishing her a happy birthday and that he'll always be there and love her. She smiles and begins to dance while looking at a picture of her and Héctor on the wall. The movie ends with Héctor performing and the credits revealing that he died at the age of 46 of AIDS from sharing needles. It is also revealed that Puchi died shortly after this interview in 2002.