In May 2015, struggling wedding videographer and film school dropout Gavin York takes an interest in a box of tapes that are found in the basement of his in-laws' newly-purchased homes. Despite the fact that the box is labelled "Don't Watch," Gavin becomes intrigued and decides to make a chronological edit of the tapes.  He discovers that they comprise a documentary from March 2004 by film students Sophia and Feldman, who are trying to prove the existence of a local urban legend, Peeping Tom. The legend states that a person can summon Peeping Tom by staring down the Ilchester Tunnel at midnight, for one hour straight, without blinking. Once Peeping Tom is summoned, he will get closer to the victim each time they blink until he kills them. Unable to complete the task, the students decide to set up a camera and film the tunnel, reasoning that the camera acts as a human eye. They review the footage to discover that Peeping Tom indeed appeared on camera in the distance. However, Peeping Tom appears on ensuing footage, and they realize that his presence is inside the camera and stalking them. Feldman becomes unstable as he realizes that Peeping Tom is looking for a way to escape the camera in order to kill him. The students grow resentful of each other and trade blame for the danger. Eventually, Feldman is murdered by Peeping Tom, forcing Sophia to continue alone.  Aspiring to finally break out into a legitimate filmmaking career, Gavin hires a documentary film crew to chronicle his discovery of the tapes and the research to prove Peeping Tom's existence. However, investigation cannot produce any evidence that Sophia or Feldman ever existed. Gavin's obsession with Peeping Tom begins to degrade his mental state and strains his relationship with his wife and son as he exhausts their finances to fund the project.  While going through the footage, Gavin's team, headed by filmmaker Erik Kristopher Myers, grows skeptical of Gavin's claims and many begin to suspect that Gavin made the footage himself. The team also discovers that the original filmmakers had previously won an award for a documentary where they used an actor to portray a real person, which continues to cast doubt on the "discovered" film.  Unable to incite interest from news stations or local interest groups, Gavin posts the footage online and arranges an interview with a radio host to promote it. Instead of garnering interest, Gavin is mocked by the station's callers, culminating in humiliation when The Blair Witch Project co-director Eduardo Sánchez calls in to dismiss it as an obvious derivative film. Afterwards, Gavin discovers a note from his wife stating that she is leaving him after he used all the money for his son's education to fund the film.  The team find Gavin outside the Ilchester Tunnel in an attempt to recreate the experiment using a camera. Before the team can decide on a course of action, Gavin runs down the tunnel with the camera and vanishes. Nine days later, Erik receives a package from him containing a DVCam film, a package for Sophia Crane (with an address that cannot be verified), and Gavin's notebook with a hotel keycard inside. The crew arrived at the hotel room to find Gavin's mangled corpse in the bathtub. They debate showing the police their footage, but opt not to, and Erik decides to continue the project.  Sophia's footage shows her attempting to not blink. She claims she had a dream where she was easily able to stare down the tunnel for the whole hour, but realizes that she was not dreaming and had in fact actually summoned Peeping Tom. In the final scene, Sophia claims Peeping Tom is right in front of her, but that she’s found a way to defeat him, before cutting off her eyelids with a glass shard. During the credits, Sophia, still alive, is in an insane asylum, seemingly stroking the face of Peeping Tom.