The film takes place in 1950s Pittsburgh at Troy Maxson's house that he lives in with his wife Rose and their son Cory.  Troy works as a garbage collector alongside his best friend, Jim Bono, who he has known for decades.  Troy left home at 14 after beating up his abusive father, and became a robber to sustain himself. While serving time for killing a man during a robbery, he met Bono and showed himself to be a talented baseball player. He then played in the professional Negro leagues; but he never made it to Major League Baseball, which held a "color barrier" until 1947. He claimed to have survived near-fatal pneumonia in his youth by defeating Death in a wrestling match, upon which Death vowed to return for a rematch.  Troy's younger brother, Gabriel, sustained a head injury in World War II that left him mentally impaired, for which he received a $3,000 government payout that Troy subsequently uses as a down payment on a home for his family. Gabriel has since moved out to live across the street at Miss Pearl's house, so Troy no longer gets rent money from Gabe.  This places the family under financial strain. Gabe sometimes gets in trouble with the law for his erratic behavior, so Rose suggests to Troy that Gabe might be better off residing in a hospital.  Lyons, Troy's oldest son from a previous relationship, visits him on payday to borrow money; this upsets him, as he believes a man has a responsibility to work hard to find his own way and provide for his family.   Rose later tells Troy that Cory is being scouted by a college football team, but he is dismissive of Cory's chances of playing professional football and refuses to sign the permission slip, saying he does not want him to fail in athletics as he did.  Rose asks Troy to build a fence around their house, and he asks Cory to help him on Saturdays. Discovering Cory is not working at his after-school job at the A&P as it interferes with football practice, Troy demands that he return to the job, despite Cory's attempts to convince him that he will work weekends instead of during the week.  Troy later finds out that Cory did not return to his job, and so tells the coach that he is no longer allowed to play.  Cory lashes out, throwing his helmet at Troy, who warns his son not to disrespect him again.  After complaining about his company's racist employment practices, Troy is promoted to driving the garbage truck, becoming the first African-American to do so in Pittsburgh.   Bono finds out that Troy is cheating on Rose with Alberta, a woman he sees at Taylor's (a bar) and encourages him to break it off.  Troy decides not break it off, as he later reveals this affair to Rose because he has got Alberta pregnant.  This leads to an argument in which he aggressively grabs Rose's arm, where Cory intervenes and knocks Troy into the fence.   Months later, the baby is born, but Alberta unfortunately dies during childbirth.  Troy brings his baby daughter Raynell home, and Rose agrees to raise her as her own, but refuses to accept him back into her life.   Cory is considering enlisting in the United States Marine Corps, having missed his opportunity to attend college. One day, when Cory returns home, an intoxicated and bitter Troy blocks his path and instigates a fight in which he swings at Troy with a baseball bat. Grabbing the bat from Cory, he drives him out of the yard. Disoriented, Troy once again challenges Death to come for him.  Troy wipes the remonstrances of Rose. Then, drunk, he has a severe fight in front of the house with Cory.   Six years later, Troy and Alberta's daughter Raynell is playing in the garden. Troy has died of a heart attack, and Cory, now a USMC corporal, returns home, but informs Rose he will not attend the funeral. Rose admits to loving Troy despite his many flaws and pleads that Troy is still a part of him.  Cory reconsiders after sharing memories of Troy with Raynell. Lyons is serving three years in prison for forgery, and gets a furlough to attend the funeral. Similarly, Gabriel is released from the hospital to attend and reunites with his family as they all bid farewell to Troy. Gabriel plays his trumpet and succeeds on the third try for St. Peter to open the gates of Heaven for Troy, and the sun glistens over them.