In the Dark Ages, after the death of his daughter, a fierce warrior known simply as "The Father" begins amassing a gruesome collection of heads of monsters he stakes to the wall of his cabin. The Father lives alone in solitude; his only company is his horse Jakke. Most of his time is spent repairing his armor, setting traps for animals, visiting his daughter's grave, and using the blood and organs of monsters to create a healing potion that heals wounds almost instantly.  The Father earns his living as a bounty hunter by hunting down the beasts that terrorize a nearby kingdom. Each time the kingdom has a new bounty, a large horn sounds off, and a new bounty is pinned to a large tree just outside the castle walls. Throughout he is shown taking the bounty, leaving to hunt down his target, then returning with the target's head which he pins to his wall.  Many of these hunts leave The Father wounded and maimed, forcing him to use the elixir to heal himself. During one such hunt, he returns on foot after Jakke is killed. Soon after making a grave for his companion and visiting his daughter’s grave, another bounty is posted. Much to his surprise, it is revealed to be the creature responsible for his daughter's death.  Traveling far north to an island, he finds the monster in a cave. After a hard battle he finally decapitates the monster and travels home to pay respects to his daughter. His victory is short-lived as one of his jars containing the elixir he left near his window is knocked over and spills over the creature's severed head, bringing it back to life. Discovering what transpired, The Father prepares to hunt down the revived creature as it searches for a new body.  As nightfall arrives, the Father begins a game of wits against the creature, with it digging up the daughter’s grave and attaching its head to her corpse. After a lengthy chase, the Father seemingly kills the creature by severing its head from his daughter's corpse and stabbing it repeatedly in the head.  Reburying his daughter the next morning, the Father returns home. After cleaning up the mess left from the previous night, he leaves the cabin to begin repairs on his armor. While doing so, he suddenly cries out in shock and pain before going silent. A short time passes and he appears to return to the cabin, carrying what appears to be a severed head which is then pinned onto the wall. The Father's severed head is then revealed to be the one that was pinned to the wall, and the creature, its head now attached to the Father's body, leaves taking one of the jars of elixir along with it, gloating as it walks away saying, “Body Mine!”