Stacy Friedman dreams about her upcoming bat mitzvah, including sharing it with her best friend Lydia Rodriguez Katz, and sharing a dance with her crush, Andy Goldfarb. She clashes with her parents, Bree and Danny, over planning a "perfect" party, which she believes will determine her future.  When popular student Kym Chang Cohen invites Lydia to her house, Stacy tags along. The girls go on a high ledge, where Andy and his friends meet up with them. On a dare and to impress Andy, Stacy agrees to jump off the ledge into the water below. Enjoying Andy's and everyone's approval is short-lived, however, as Stacy's bloody maxi-pad floats up next to her. Angry that everyone, including Lydia, is laughing at her, Stacy "calls it," and Lydia announces the time that she lost her crush on Andy.  Once school starts, Stacy learns that Lydia and Andy are dating. Feeling betrayed, Stacy stops talking to Lydia and sends a text message to an anonymous group that Lydia has long hair on her nipples. Stacy even sabotages an entrance video she was making for Lydia's upcoming bat mitzvah with humiliating personal video clips. However, she does not send it.  Stacy continues trying to get Andy's attention and visits his grandmother's retirement home. She tries to look older and more popular, and argues with her parents over planning her bat mitzvah. Andy eventually offers to give Stacy her first kiss. Hiding behind the curtains of a Torah ark, they are interrupted by their teacher, Rabbi Rebecca, which leads to more fighting between her and her father.  Lydia's mother, Gabi, unaware Stacy and Lydia are fighting, arrives at the Friedman house, and asks Bree for the entrance video for Lydia's bat mitzvah. Not realizing what the video contains, Bree sends it to her. At Lydia's bat mitzvah, the entrance video is played. Although Stacy tries to get the video stopped, the damage is done. As Lydia walks into her party, she runs off and angrily chastises Stacy.  At Stacy's bat mitzvah day, she starts to read from the Torah from her parsha of Ki Tissa. Seeing that Lydia and her parents are missing, she stops, then confesses everything to the audience. She berates Andy for his bad behavior and for driving her and Lydia apart. She then finishes her Torah reading at her father's urging.  Afterwards, Stacy runs through town to apologize to Lydia and invites her to her party later that night. When Lydia and her parents arrive, they are surprised that Stacy has made it into a party for Lydia, too, and the girls make up. Stacy starts dancing with Matteo, a classmate who has been interested in her.  Sometime later, Stacy, Lydia, and their friends have a bake sale to help the retirement home.