Pedro returns home to the village of Copanatoyac, the "(Aquí) or Here" of the title, in the Sierra mountains of Guerrero, Mexico. After a few years working in New York to support his family back home, he now finds his daughters on the verge of adolescence, and is unsure of what to expect.  The younger of the two, Heidi, quickly becomes eager to reconnect, while his older daughter, Lorena, is more distant than he imagined.  His wife, Teresa, still has the same smile.  Although, she senses he may have had a woman in the US, and is guarded in their intimate moments.  Having saved his earnings from two long periods of work in the US, Pedro hopes to now finally make a better life at home with his family, without having to leave them again.  He even finally plans to pursue his own version of the American Dream on the side by starting a band: the Copa Kings.  Only the purity of music seems able to diffuse Lorena's moody resentment toward her father's years of absence.  The villagers think this year's crop will be bountiful. There is also good work in the growing city of Tlapa an hour away. But the locals are wise to a life of insecurity, and their thoughts are often of family members or opportunities far away, north of the border. While working in the cornfields, Pedro meets and begins to mentor a teenager, Leo, who dreams of the US.  Leo's love of breakdancing helps him to win over Karla, a studious girl he meets but a folk dancer herself.  Their budding first love recalls Pedro's and Teresa's of a generation before.  For Pedro, whether consoling the grieving mother of a friend who died inexplicably "over there", or meeting a new nephew being raised by extended family members because his parents have emigrated to the US—that place, the "(Allá) or There" of the title, somehow always feels very present, practically knocking at the door.  Teresa soon becomes pregnant with a third child, but complications force Pedro to deal with the ensuing medical issues and their expense.  He also begins to have moments of triumph playing local concerts and dances with the Copa Kings—as Pedro sings in his song "Quiero Brindar", "I wanna drink to all I've got and to all I've accomplished."  Although earning a living as a band leader and musician proves difficult.  For the locals, work in the fields depends on a good harvest, and construction work seems determined by inexplicable economic forces outside of their control.  Pedro may, once again, be forced to confront the paradox that, "in order to feed their love ones, emigrants have to leave them behind."