An NYPD police officer, Detective Galban, investigates the circumstances behind the death of his partner, Detective Joey Cullen. The mysterious case leads to an attempted police cover-up and a dangerous secret involving an unlikely young woman. The two parallel story lines initially appear to have little in common, but as events gradually unfold in the two separate urban worlds, the young woman, Isabel De La Cruz, appears to somehow be involved in the detective's demise.  Detective Cullen was depraved and corrupted. His colleagues fear that the investigation into his death will bring these facts to light. The results would include bad press for the police department and the loss of his pension for his family. The fear is based on the fact that one of the prime suspects in the case is a young ex-convict who had allegedly been sexual assaulted with a broomstick wielded by Detective Cullen. Supervisors within the precinct would rather let the murderer go free than to open up a Pandora's Box of troubles for everyone concerned.  Meanwhile, in Isabel's private world, Isabel befriends a young girl named Elisa.  Isabel suspects that Elisa is being abused at home by her father.  She also believes that the strange beings she has begun seeing on the streets are angels.  Accordingly, she thinks that her mysterious "impossible" pregnancy is a gift from God, which no one else is willing to believe.  Isabel returns to her parents’ home to live.  When Elisa says that Isabel's father has hurt her, it triggers a sudden recollection in Isabel's mind of molestation by her father many years ago.  All of Isabel's buried memories are suddenly released in an avalanche of images.  In truth, it turns out that Isabel's "angels" are a fabrication of her own mind. She created them to accompany a fictional narrative that would replace the unbearably traumatic memories of being raped by Detective Cullen on the subway platform the night that her "visions" began. She further suppressed the memory of catching him off guard afterwards and killing him in a fit of righteous rage.  In response to the memories and to Elisa's crying, Isabel kills her father in order to protect Elisa.  Detective Galban is then sent to the scene of the murder.  When Galban looks at an old photograph of Isabel's family it is revealed that Elisa is also a fabrication of Isabel's mind.  The imaginary girl is actually Isabel as a child.  In the end Elisa disappears as Isabel is in church praying for the strength to accept everything that has happened.