On the afternoon of January 15, 2009, Captain Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger and First Officer Jeff Skiles board US Airways Flight 1549 from LaGuardia Airport to Charlotte Douglas International Airport. Three minutes into the flight, at an approximate altitude of , the Airbus A320 strikes a flock of birds, damaging both engines. Without much time to think, they judge themselves as unable to reach nearby airports (Teterboro Airport being the closest), and Sully ditches the aircraft on the Hudson River. Though with mild injuries, the crew and passengers evacuate without any fatalities. Sully is hailed a hero, but still experiences the aftereffects, and finds himself unable to escape the attention of the press, which is not only targeting him but also his family.  Still in New York City for investigation reasons, Sully learns that preliminary data from ACARS suggest that the left engine was still running at idle power. Theoretically, it still had enough power to land the plane at either LaGuardia or Teterboro. Furthermore, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) claims that several confidential computerized simulations show similar results. Sully and Jeff firmly insist otherwise, and this opposition gradually intensifies the relationship between both parties.  The NTSB suspects it may be a case of pilot error, which would likely end Sully's career. He arranges to have the simulations rerun with live pilots, then relayed to the public. They result in successful landings. Sully debates that the simulations are unrealistic because they do not take human factors into account, such as the element of surprise, the time required for analysis and decision-making, and the significantly higher stakes he and Jeff faced; the simulation pilots knew in advance of the situation that they would face and of the suggested emergency action, were able to practice the scenario several times, had no passengers to think about, and were in no danger themselves. The NTSB reluctantly accepts his criticism, and the simulations are rerun with a 35-second pause before the plane is diverted. The LaGuardia rerun ends with the plane landing short of the runway, and that to Teterboro with a crash into buildings before the airport. The NTSB announces that analysis of the port engine, now recovered from the river, confirms Sully's account that it had indeed been seriously damaged by the bird strike, and concludes that Sully had acted correctly in the event. Sully credits everyone on board, the air traffic controllers, the ferry crews, and the emergency response teams for the success.  During the credits, photographs of the actual rescue are shown, and the real Sully and his wife Lorrie give a short speech to the passengers who were on the plane.