Clay Walsh owns an antique shop in a small Midwestern college town where he repairs and restores furniture, and where he meets Amber, a free-spirited young woman who rents the apartment above Clay's shop. Amber is struck by the fact that Clay will not enter the apartment to show her around. He tells her he has made a vow not be alone with a woman who is not his wife. Amber finds this odd, and odder still when she learns he is not married.  Amber takes a job at a local shop, and takes an interest in getting to know Clay. This proves to be difficult, as Clay does not date. He believes dating a poor preparation for marriage. He will only come up to see Amber when something in her apartment needs repair. In response, Amber begins sabotaging appliances so she can speak with Clay.  Eventually, Clay agrees to take her out, but the dates he plans are odd and unusual. Amber discloses her past of being in a number of relationships, many of which were superficial and at times abusive, leading her to move to a new town each time. Clay's past is even more checkered; in his college days, he knew a large number of women, and shot exploitation films in the manner of Girls Gone Wild. At some point in the past, Clay came to the sharp realization that his life choices were causing pain to those around him. He turned away from that life style, walked away from the money, withdrew from the world around him, and confined himself to working in the antique shop.  Though isolated, over a period of some nine years he has developed into a craftsman. In town, Clay is known for his faith, his reserve and his odd theories on love and romance. These out of place and old-fashioned attitudes irritate his friends, who have difficulty understanding and accepting him. Few are aware of the guilt Clay feels over his past, or that he views himself as not fit for a relationship with anyone.  Despite the unusual rules Clay has committed himself to, Amber continues to have an interest in him. She expresses a number of times that she wishes they could do things people do on normal dates, but eventually realizes her feelings for Clay are more important than her desire for normality.  A crisis develops, and both end up going their own way. Clay is saddened by the separation and seeks out his Great Aunt Zella, who implores him not to let her go. She tells Clay that she has never seen anyone try so hard to be good, but that life is not about failings; it is about loving those that God has brought into our lives, and that stepping back into the world, and into love, is vital, knowing that failure is a part of it.  Clay takes her advice, finds Amber and asks her to marry him. Before he can even get the question out she answers "Yes." He warns her to be cautious, that it will not be easy. She smiles and repeats her answer "Yes."