Film student Tyler is obsessed with the horror film The Hills Run Red, considered the scariest movie ever made, with the deranged serial killer Babyface in the lead role. However, the film's director, Wilson Wyler Concannon, disappeared years ago, and no known copy of the film exists. Tyler's obsession leads him to neglect his girlfriend, Serina, who begins cheating on him with the couple's close friend, Lalo. When Tyler discovers that Concannon's daughter Alexa works in a nightclub as a stripper, he decides to meet her and ask about the lost film. He visits Alexa and asks her about the project as she gives him a nude lap dance and later brings him home, where he forces her to comply with him. Alexa informs Tyler that the movie might be in her father's home in the woods.  Tyler drives out to Concannon's home, accompanied by Serina, Lalo, and Alexa. After interviewing several people on the way there, Tyler confides to Alexa that he deduced that Serina and Lalo are having an affair, and, after a heart-to-heart on his love for The Hills Run Red, he and Alexa kiss. They are suddenly bound and attacked by rednecks whom they had interviewed earlier, who threaten to rape Alexa and Serina. Babyface appears and kills the assaulters before chasing the group into the woods and disappearing. Tyler breaks into the house and finds a red room that contains many film reels hanging from the ceiling, and later rescues Alexa. The two meet up with Serina, but Babyface attacks the trio, which knocks Tyler unconscious, enables Babyface to catch Alexa, and forces Serina to flee, however Alexa is revealed to be ordering Babyface and had previously paid off the rednecks. During her escape, Serina is shocked to find bloodied bodies inside a makeshift smokehouse, but she is eventually captured by Babyface.  Tyler wakes and finds himself tied to a wheelchair, with many film reels of The Hills Run Red behind him and Concannon finally appearing. Concannon reveals that Alexa is in league with him and tells him the secret behind the scares in his film. Twenty years prior, a dissatisfied Concannon took Babyface's costume from the original actor and violently axed the actor to death. He has since killed all his actors by making all their on-screen deaths real. Due to this, the screenings were cancelled and the actors proclaimed missing. He also reveals that Babyface is his son, a product of incest between him and Alexa; after his wife died, he lusted after his daughter and raped her when she was thirteen, producing Babyface. Growing up watching The Hills Run Red, Babyface mutilated his own face and stitched the mask to himself like the fictional character to please his father. As Concannon speaks with Tyler, Alexa begins filming her own movie as she tortures Lalo in the barn while Babyface rapes Serina.  Concannon brings Tyler to the barn, where he is enraged to see his daughter making her movie without him. He calls Babyface, which gives Serina a chance to escape. Alexa kills Lalo as she argues with her father, which leads to Concannon shooting her. Angered by Alexa's apparent death, Babyface turns on his father and fights him. Tyler takes a camera and successfully convinces Babyface to kill Concannon. Babyface then turns on Tyler, but before he can kill him, Serina stabs Babyface through the back with a long iron staff, killing him. However, Alexa recovers and knocks both Serina and Tyler unconscious, enraged by her son's death. Alexa then ties Tyler up and forces him to watch her cut of The Hills Run Red, thanking him for realizing her potential as a director independent from her father. As the film continuously loops, Tyler frees his mouth gag and begins maniacally laughing as he bleeds out.  In a mid-credits scene, Serina, still Alexa's prisoner, is several months pregnant with Babyface's child. Alexa brings Babyface's mask as a gift for her future grandchild and sings a lullaby to the baby as Serina screams.