Manhattan resident Sheila runs into Gary, a meek man who prefers to watch movies over sports, one night at a bar. They go on a date and bond over their similar taste in drinks and childhoods before the night ends. Throughout the date, Sheila tells him that she discovered June's time machine at a nail salon and has been using it to relive the same night for the past seven nights. They end the date on good terms and she tells him that she'll see him again the next day.  Over the course of a month's worth of resets, Sheila reveals that she began using time travel on the day she planned to kill herself. During the first reset, she and Gary met in a bar and had a nice date. Having felt happy for the first time in a long time, Sheila continues to reset the day and relive the date. On several occasions on the dates, Sheila reveals that when she was young a cable man who came to her house was nice to her in a way that stuck with her, but she doesn't know why she brings it up. After about five months, standing at the spot where she planned to jump off the Manhattan Bridge, she admits that she's in love with Gary, which unnerves him to the point of leaving the date.  After the 364th reset, the monotony of the same date catches up to Sheila. She decides to use the time machine to spice up their date by going further back and changing Gary. On the first anniversary of the resets, Gary is no longer interested in movies, and is now an assertive and successful businessman. Unfortunately, Sheila reveals that she manipulated his life by taking on the role of "Uncle Charlie", Gary's new childhood neighbor who played catch with him and got him interested in sports, as well as "deleting" a couple of negative people in Gary's life. Gary does not take the news kindly and the two end the date on poor terms.  Although Sheila goes back to undo her edits in Gary's life, he experiences déjà vu and manages to piece together that the two have indeed experienced the date multiple times. Upset, Gary uses the knowledge he gained from their date, namely the location of June and the time machine and where Sheila used to live, to try to save Sheila from wanting to commit suicide, which had also made her obsessed with him. It is revealed that Gary is the cable man who was nice to her when she was young, leaving her life unchanged.  Deciding that reliving the same day is no longer making her happy, Sheila goes to commit suicide, which June notices and informs Gary when he comes back from the past. He manages to catch up to Sheila and tells her the machine sent him forward, that she did not commit suicide, and that they met again "tomorrow". He walks away from her. This lie works, and she follows him off the bridge; as the sun rises on tomorrow, the two continue a truly new day for their date.