The making of Breakfast at Tiffany's serves as a framing device for the film. Audrey's life up to that point is seen in elongated flashbacks.  During Audrey's childhood, her Nazi-sympathizer father abandons her and her mother, Ella. Audrey is sent to an English boarding school, where she becomes passionate about ballet. When Britain enters World War II, Audrey returns to live with Ella in the neutral Netherlands. The Nazis invade, leading to years of hardship. When the nation is liberated, UNICEF provides resources to the starved populous.  After the war, Audrey studies ballet in London, but doesn't have the talent to become a prima ballerina. To make ends meet, she dances in musicals and revues. This leads to small parts in several films. She gets engaged to the wealthy industrialist James Hanson, who emotionally supports her career to a degree.  While filming Monte Carlo Baby in 1951, Audrey is scouted by Colette to star in the Broadway play Gigi. During the production, she is coached in acting by playwright Anita Loos. Realizing that she wants to devote herself to her career, Audrey breaks off her engagement with Hanson.  Audrey's leading role in the 1953 film Roman Holiday catapults her to stardom. While filming Sabrina, she falls in love with married costar William Holden. He proposes marriage, but she declines when he reveals that he had an irreversible vasectomy. Despite suffering heartbreak, Sabrina is another professional success for Audrey.  Actor Mel Ferrer and Audrey costar in the play Ondine on Broadway. She wins the Academy Award for Best Actress for Roman Holiday. Shortly afterwards, she and Mel marry and move to Switzerland. She is kept busy making the films Funny Face, Love in the Afternoon, and The Nun's Story.  While filming The Nun's Story in Stanleyville, Belgian Congo, Audrey learns about the area's lack of access to good medical care. She questions the value of her work as an actress. Mel insists that her movies matter to millions of people.  While filming The Unforgiven, a pregnant Audrey falls from a horse, injuring her back. While in the hospital, she receives a letter from her estranged father and learns that Ella hid his other letters from her. Distraught, Audrey miscarries.  After recovering, she travels to Ireland to see her father. The visit is short and he has no desire to meet again. A dejected Audrey reconciles with Ella. Audrey takes a hiatus from acting to have her and Mel's son, Sean Hepburn Ferrer. She is offered the role of Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's, but turns it down due concerns about playing a wild "call girl." Mel convinces her the role is worth taking.  While preparing to film the final scene of Breakfast at Tiffany's, Audrey theorizes that Holly abandoning her cat symbolizes how she feels about herself: lost and un-loveable. When Holly finds the cat again, she is accepting herself. Audrey's insight gains her the respect of Truman Capote, the cantankerous writer of the novella on which the film is based. After filming the final scene in one take, everyone celebrates.  The closing text mentions several of Audrey's films after Breakfast at Tiffany's, and her second son Luca Dotti. Later in life, she became a UNICEF ambassador, and there is footage of the real Hepburn during one of her UNICEF missions. She died of cancer in 1993.