Nine years after the events of the series finale, former teenage sleuth Veronica Mars has left Neptune, California, and moved to New York City, where she is in a relationship with Stosh "Piz" Piznarski and has a job offer from the prestigious law firm Truman-Mann and Associates.  Veronica is contacted by her ex-boyfriend Logan Echolls, now a Lieutenant in the United States Navy, who has been accused of murdering his girlfriend Carrie Bishop. She was a fellow Neptune High graduate who became the self-destructive pop star, "Bonnie DeVille". He is being bombarded for help from lawyers, and Veronica agrees to return to Neptune to aid Logan find one who will best represent him. She reunites with her father Keith Mars, Neptune's former sheriff-turned-private investigator, who shows her that corruption and classism are rife under Sheriff Dan Lamb, the brother of the previous Sheriff Don Lamb.  Veronica investigates the circumstances of Carrie's death. During her investigation, she attends her ten-year high school reunion with Wallace Fennell and Cindy "Mac" MacKenzie. There, she learns that former outlaw biker Eli "Weevil" Navarro is now a reformed family man. During the reunion, Veronica realizes Carrie's murder is connected to that of Carrie's best friend, Susan Knight, who disappeared off a boat nine years earlier.  After Veronica's nemesis Madison Sinclair projects a copy of Veronica's college sex tape with Piz, a fight breaks out. The reunion comes to an abrupt end as she sets the sprinklers off. Attending an after party, she speaks with Dick Casablancas, Luke Haldeman and his fiancée Gia Goodman, and Stu "Cobb" Cobbler, all of whom were with Susan and Carrie on the boat the night Susan disappeared. Meanwhile, while driving home from the reunion, Weevil stops to help a driver being harassed by bikers, only to be shot by her, Celeste Kane. The sheriff's department plants a gun so she can claim self-defense, and Keith agrees to prove Weevil's innocence.  Veronica concludes that those on Susan's boat years ago covered up the circumstances of her death and Carrie was killed because she threatened to confess. As compromising videos of Carrie are posted online, Veronica traces them back to Vinnie Van Lowe, who has been planting spyware on celebrities and selling the footage.  Veronica uses Vinnie's footage to prove Gia lured Logan to Carrie's the night of her murder, suggesting that she and Luke killed Carrie, framing Logan. Lamb ignores her evidence and refuses to follow up, but unbeknownst to him Veronica records the conversation. Having stayed in Neptune longer than planned, Veronica calls Piz in New York to explain that she cannot return yet, and he breaks it off. Truman-Mann rescinds their job offer, resulting in an argument between Keith and Veronica.  Keith meets with Deputy Sacks about Weevil's case, but they are attacked by someone in a truck who slams into Sacks' car, killing him and leaving Keith in critical condition. Veronica and Logan sleep together, establishing a relationship. She sends bugged flowers to Gia's and calls her with recordings of Carrie's voice, hoping to scare her into confessing to being behind her death. Gia panics and calls Cobb, revealing his involvement. Veronica goes to Gia's apartment to confront her, where Gia reveals that Cobb is the mastermind of Carrie's death and framing Logan: Susan overdosed, and he took photos of a panicked Carrie, Gia, and Luke dumping Susan's body and has been blackmailing them.  Veronica's bug broadcasts this via a radio frequency which she believed to be unused but is actually that of a local radio station. Cobb hears their conversation over the radio from his apartment in the building opposite, then shoots and kills Gia through the window before coming after Veronica. She calls the police and lures Cobb to the basement, beating him unconscious.  Logan returns to active duty in the Navy but promises to come back to Veronica. Cobb's photo and the secret recording of Lamb refusing to investigate Veronica's claims leak online, forcing Lamb to arrest Cobb, with calls to oust Lamb from office. Keith and Weevil recover from their injuries, but Weevil returns to the criminal lifestyle. Veronica takes over her father's private investigator business with Mac as her assistant, resolved to help fight Neptune's corruption.