Michelle Jordan, a former inmate, is granted probation and released to a halfway house. As one of the conditions for her probation, she attends a Church Revival where she runs into family friend Twana and an old friend from childhood named Todd. Todd is a father recently divorced from a woman named Keisha, whom everyone in high school stated had an uncanny  physical appearance to Michelle. When the Bishop questions Michelle on her mother Cassey's intentions Michelle states she is unsure, and separate flashbacks show Cassey's life has not been pleasant either. Cassey's boyfriend Reggie, is an alcoholic and drug addict who owes money to a local dealer, and constantly criticizes Cassey for going to Revival. After Reggie comes clean about his drug addiction, Cassey again asks if the incident in which Michelle said that he had sexually assaulted her as a child had ever occurred, to which he continues to deny. After a negative run-in with Pervis, a former abuser and pimp, at the halfway house, that her friend and former co worker Nicole saves her from, she gives Michelle a handgun, should she ever run into trouble again. In the meantime, Todd reveals to Michelle that he has always had feelings for her.  One day, Michelle leaves to go to Revival. After arriving, she sees Reggie has accompanied Cassey to the service. Reggie claims he is there to apologize to the Lord for his sins, and as he tries to apologize and comes toward Michelle for a hug of sorrow, Michelle (who is very enraged) recalling the abuse and only seeing her attacker trying to come for her again, shoots him dead with the handgun. We cut back to present day where it is revealed that Michelle is actually serving a death sentence for his murder. She admits to the Bishop that what she did was wrong, and asks the Bishop to tell her mother that she loves her, despite everything that has happened. The Bishop tells Michelle that he has been praying for her, and he says that she will be alright before he leaves. Throughout the film, when the flashbacks are cut back to present day, we see Michelle designing a small wooden house out of popsicle sticks. This house is a representation of Michelle as an individual. She initially questions putting a window on the house, but the Bishop gives her the symbolic nature of the window as an opportunity. The Bishop then questions where the door is, although Michelle had not placed one. After the Bishop's departure, it is shown in a new present day that Michelle's cell is now empty. This is to imply that Michelle's death sentence had been carried out. However, the film ends with a shot in the cell of the house, which now has a door is now on it as well. The film's end credits state that although Michelle was a fictional character, this type of story does actually happen, and the website womanthouartloosed.com is displayed.