The story alternates between flashbacks of U.S. soldier Brandon Bartle's time serving in Iraq with his friend Daniel "Murph" Murphy, and Bartle returning to his home in Richmond, Virginia. Only Bartle has come back, leaving the fate of Murph a mystery. Bartle first meets Murph during basic training, with Murph noting both men are from Virginia. While Murph is a middle-class kid who wants to attend the University of Virginia after his service, Bartle is from a working-class background and has no idea what he wants to do with his life. Despite their differences, the two soldiers form a friendship. At a party before the men ship off to Iraq, Bartle meets Murph’s mom Maureen, who makes him promise that if anything happens to her son, he’ll bring her the news personally.  In Iraq, the two soldiers are placed under the command of the older, troubled Sergeant Sterling. Murph is gradually broken down by the horrors of the experience. When Murph is injured, he is tended to by a female medic named Jenny whom he develops an attraction to. He watches Jenny from a distance every day as she tends to patients, but does not have the courage to approach her. One day, Murph observes Jenny as she arrives at her post, but she is visibly distraught. Suddenly, the area is hit by bombs. In the ensuing chaos, Murph finds Jenny, but she is fatally wounded. He and Bartle lift Jenny’s body onto a beam for burial.  In the present, Bartle suffers from PTSD and has a combative relationship with his mother Amy. After a fight with his mom, he gets out of the house and wanders aimlessly around town. Out in the woods, he spies a young couple kissing and starts walking towards them, wading through the deep river where he becomes submerged and nearly drowns. The couple notices and calls the police. Meanwhile, Maureen locates where Bartle lives and goes to his home in the hopes of inquiring about her son; she is greeted by Amy who invites her in. Bartle, after being let go by the police, is apprehended by CID officer Captain Anderson, who informs him he has been investigating Murph’s disappearance. Anderson discloses to Bartle the news that Sterling has committed suicide.  Bartle is put in prison where he calls his mom and apologizes to her for his actions. He is visited by Maureen, who wants him to tell the truth about what happened to her son. Bartle recounts that while the soldiers were doing a sweep of an Iraqi village, Murph wandered off from the unit and disappeared. In search of Murph, Bartle and Sterling are led to a minaret by an elderly hermit, where they find Murph's dead body, naked and nearly castrated, dumped behind a bush. Bartle, believing Murph’s mother would not want to see her son’s body in such a state, resolves with Sterling to get rid of the body in a river. As he releases his friend's body in the water, Bartle remarks that Murph always wanted to disappear and that this is the way he would have wanted to go. Sterling insists this must be kept a secret, before shooting the hermit to Bartle’s surprise. After learning the truth, Maureen tearfully asks Bartle if there were any moments when her son was happy. Bartle says there was, and recounts a holiday party on base where Murph wanted to dance with Jenny but was too nervous to ask her. Jenny noticed Murphy and approaches him, asking him to dance. The film ends with Murph and Jenny locked in a slow dance.