When Eddie Everett (Patrick Warburton) was a rookie in 1992, he was one of the best pitchers of his time. He led the California Angels to the American League Championship Series, where they played the Boston Red Sox, and were one out away from making it to the World Series (this same situation occurred in real life, but in 1986, not 1992). When a rookie playing for the Red Sox hits a ground ball to Eddie, he drops the ball and is unable to get the other player out, while the runners he let on base score, losing a chance for the Angels to make it to the World Series. Ever since then, Eddie has never been the same pitcher or the same person.  Six years later, Eddie and his wife, Claire (Rebecca Jenkins), are divorced, and he has barely kept contact with their thirteen-year-old daughter, Laurel. However, at a game where the Anaheim Angels are playing the fictitious Arizona Crimson Devils, and they lose, Claire says that she is taking a job in Boston and is leaving Laurel with him. When he takes her back home, she realizes that his life isn't at all what she thought it'd be. He can't get over losing that game in his rookie year, and one night Laurel prays for him to get a second chance.  Shortly afterward, underappreciated angel and former Angels pitcher Bob Bugler (David Alan Grier), who himself had his career end in disgrace, is sent to answer her prayer. He and the other angels help the team have an incredible winning streak, right when Eddie was about to get cut from the team. Soon, Eddie's game improves, as does his relationship with Laurel.  As the season ends, the Angels and the Crimson Devils are forced to play in a one-game playoff to determine which team will represent the American League in the World Series. The devil (Colin Fox) makes a deal with Randy Fleck, the Crimson Devils' star player who was also the one who hit the grounder that blew the 1992 ALCS for the Angels, for Eddie to lose the game, and everything he cares about, in exchange for his soul. He agrees.  The devil makes the game delayed thanks to rain, and Eddie leaves to see Laurel's ballet recital. To get him to the game faster, Bob speeds up the recital. When he gets to the game, the Crimson Devils are up 2-0 in the bottom of the eighth inning. The Angels soon score three runs thanks to a home run by Eric Jacobs, who had a demon holding him back. Bob explains to Laurel that he and the other angels are unable to interfere in a championship game. When the ninth inning comes, Eddie gets two quick outs, but then a player hits a triple. When Randy Fleck comes to the plate and Eddie quietly asks God for help, Bob appears to him and tells him that his newfound confidence, as well as his family's confidence in him, is all he needs to win the game. Encouraged, Eddie pitches to Fleck, who once again hits a ground ball, but this time Eddie manages to catch it and throw it to first base, winning the game. The stadium cheers, and Eddie hugs Laurel and kisses Claire.