Evan Danielson is a successful financial advisor, who had been working at the same securities firm for eight years as their top account manager, until Johnny Whitefeather was hired as his rival. Whitefeather seems to have the whole company under a spell as he spiels his nonsensical idioms filled with Native American mumbo jumbo. The top executives seem more content with chanting Indian-style noises than listening to how they can make money through sound investments.  When Evan discovers that his daughter, Olivia is able to tell the future within the financial world by using her "goo-gaa" comfort blanket and her imaginary friends (Queen Qwali and Princesses Kupida, Sopida and Mopida), he gains an invaluable upper hand at the office. During work, Olivia draws all over Evan's worksheets for a meeting. Outraged, Evan goes to the meeting and he shows off the paperwork and explains that ChemStar is sparkly, and Aerodyne and Yellowfin will get married, confusing his colleagues. Evan thinks he is about to be fired, but his boss informs him that all his predictions came through. The share price of ChemStar shot up, while Aerodyne and Yellowfin were preparing to merge.  After only a few days with Olivia, Evan rediscovers his inner child, and has fun playing imaginary games with her. Whitefeather becomes suspicious and begins to search for his secret. When he learns that Evan was just playing with a wakalyapi blanket, Whitefeather pays six thousand dollars for one, ordering his son to tell him the future and keeping him up all night by making him drink cans of Red Bull.  Whitefeather and Evan are now competing for the position of head of the Western division of the company D.D.E. In order to be prepared for the presentation, Evan again needs to invoke the use of the Goo-Gaa blanket and meet with the princesses. However, Olivia is spending the night at her friend's house, and there is no way for Evan to obtain the Goo-Gaa without taking it from her. Also, the presentations will be held at the time of Olivia's class play.  Evan gets Olivia to give him the Goo-Gaa, but she cries because he seems to care only about the blanket, not her. He returns home, tries to get the princesses' attention, then starts working on his presentation. As hours pass, Evan stretches, and the Goo-Gaa falls on the floor, but he continues working without noticing.  Evan goes to the presentation instead of Olivia's class concert. Johnny gives his presentation, but his idea is too crazy for Dante D'Enzo, the owner of the company. When Evan is about to present, he suddenly decides to go to Olivia's class concert, and leaves the presentation. As he drives over, Evan changes into a king costume. At the concert, Olivia is unable to sing her solo part. Evan appears dressed as a king, and she starts singing, delighted to see him.  After the class concert, Evan tells Olivia how sorry he is for misusing her blanket, seemingly not caring about her, and for using the princesses for the wrong reason. Evan and Olivia say good-bye to the princesses, as she says it is time to let them go. They both start waving and, although there is no wind, some leaves fly off into the sky.  D'Enzo offers the position to Evan because his resolve in leaving the presentation demonstrated to D'Enzo that he is not just a sycophant, and his presentation notes showed impressive ideas. Evan accepts.  Evan, Olivia's mother Trish, and Olivia leave happy.