Finally friends, Brad Whitaker and Dusty Mayron co-parent Dusty's two children, Megan and Dylan, who take turns at each father's house. Dusty has remarried to Karen, a doctor/novelist, and is a stepfather to her daughter Adrianna. The men decide to have a joint Christmas rather than separate ones, after Megan embarrassingly admits she would prefer one "together Christmas".  Dusty's tough fighter pilot/Space Shuttle astronaut father Kurt and Brad's overbearing and cheerful father, Don, unexpectedly arrive for Christmas. Megan and Dylan warmly embrace Don, as he is very present in their lives, while Kurt hasn't seen them since they were toddlers. From his envy of the affection the children show Don, Kurt rents a large cabin through Airbnb, to house them all through the holiday week.  Brad and Dusty's co-parenting is put to the test by Kurt's meddling. Dusty's beef with Kurt mainly stems from the fact that he was rarely there for him as a child. Especially painful was when, during a youth Glee Club recital he embarrassed himself by missing his solo part when Kurt left to make out with a woman during his part. Sara, meanwhile, tries to bond with Karen, but is appalled by her shoplifting clothes from a store and not caring if Adrianna and Megan drink alcoholic eggnog. She later becomes concerned Don isn't with his wife, who he claims couldn't come as she was staying home to take care of her ill brother.  Dylan develops a crush on a little girl staying in the cabin next door, causing Megan and Adrianna to constantly tease him in front of her. Brad gives him some "advice", and Dusty interjects when he thinks Brad is having what looks like "the talk" with Dylan, although they had agreed to do it together. As the trees on the Christmas tree farm are small, Kurt suggests they illegally go on to private property to cut one down. Brad mistakes a cell phone tower for a tree and is electrocuted.  After bowling, the family takes the kids to see Santa. There, Kurt tries to convince Dylan to ask Santa for a shotgun, but Don talks him out of it. Megan, however, wants one instead and is granted permission after Kurt makes a sexist comment. Out hunting the next day, Megan accidentally shoots Kurt in the shoulder, sending him to the hospital. While Kurt is down, she shoots two turkeys, surprising him. Sara confronts Brad over Don's odd behavior, but he refuses to believe her.  Brad, Dusty, Don and Kurt go to an improv comedy club, where they have a good time until Kurt picks up a woman at the bar, annoying Dusty. Brad enters Don into the improv show, and Dusty chooses the topic of a husband confronting his cheating wife as the subject of the skit. As it progresses, it is revealed that Don and his wife are divorced, much to Brad's shock. Sara comforts Don about his divorce, but when Dusty reveals his part in the skit, Don and Brad become furious and Dusty and Brad's relationship becomes strained. Brad, attempting to get back at Dusty, invites Adrianna's father, Roger, who intimidates Dusty.  The entire family takes part in a live nativity. Brad fights with Dusty because he wants to play Joseph. A drunken Megan begins to swear, and an equally drunk Adrianna falls from her platform, then the crowd breaks up. Instead of Dusty fighting Brad, he almost fights Roger, and Don is repeatedly hit in the face with ice-balls.  On Christmas Day the families, depressed from all the arguing, pack up to leave. On their way out of town, they are forced back due to a blizzard, taking shelter at a movie theater. They see Missile Tow, a holiday action comedy film starring Liam Neeson. When the power cuts off during the movie, everyone goes to the lobby where each man confronts his father about his secrets, lies, and attitudes, and reconcile.  Remembering advice given to him by Kurt, Dylan walks toward the girl he has a crush on to kiss her, but instead kisses Adrianna. Kurt pushes Dusty to stand up to Adrianna and punish her for her recent behavior, but he instead tells her he loves her. He then tells Roger that loving Adrianna means loving her real father as well as he is also part of the family. Roger almost leaves without Adrianna. However, he has a change of heart after everyone breaks out into a song of "Do They Know It's Christmas?" (during which the power comes back on) and he decides to stay.  At the airport, Don and Kurt are preparing to head back to their respective homes where Kurt reveals to Don that he switched out the tickets and they are going to spend New Year's together in Las Vegas. As Brad's mother arrives, Dusty and Brad discover Brad's new stepfather is Sully Sullenberger, pilot of the 2009 "Miracle on the Hudson" flight, and Dusty appears to be excited to meet him. However, an infuriated Brad runs down the terminal, screaming that Sully will never replace his father.