In 1961, Llewyn Davis is a struggling folk singer in New York City's Greenwich Village. His solo album Inside Llewyn Davis is not selling; he is penniless and sleeps on acquaintances' couches. After playing The Gaslight Café one night, he is beaten up in the alley behind the café by a man in a suit. 	 Davis awakens in the apartment of two friends, the Gorfeins. As he leaves, their cat escapes and is locked out. He takes it to the apartment of Jim and Jean Berkey, where Jean reluctantly allows Davis to stay the night. Jean tells Davis that she is pregnant, and that he could be the father. The next morning, Davis opens a window and the Gorfeins' cat escapes. Later, Jean asks Davis to pay for an abortion, though she is upset it may be Jim's child she is terminating.  Davis visits his sister, hoping to borrow money. Instead, she gives him a box of his belongings, which he tells her to discard. She mentions that he could make money by returning to the Merchant Marine. On Jim's invitation, Davis records a space travel-themed novelty song with Jim and Al Cody. Needing money for the abortion, Davis agrees to an immediate $200 rather than royalties. Davis tries to make an appointment for the abortion, only to learn that payment will not be necessary because he already paid for the same procedure two years earlier on behalf of another woman who kept the child without informing him.  Davis captures what he believes to be the Gorfeins' cat and returns it to them that evening. Asked to perform after dinner, he reluctantly plays "Fare Thee Well", a song he had recorded with his old partner, Mike. When Mrs. Gorfein sings Mike's harmony, Davis angrily tells her not to. She leaves the table crying, then returns with the cat, having realized that it doesn't have a scrotum and is thus not theirs. Davis leaves with the cat.  Davis drives to Chicago with two musicians: beat poet Johnny Five and jazz musician Roland Turner. During the trip, he discloses that his musical partner, Mike Timlin, died by suicide.  At a roadside restaurant, Roland collapses from a heroin overdose. The three stop on the side of the highway to rest. When a police officer tells them to move on, he suspects that Johnny is drunk and orders him out of the car. Johnny resists and is arrested. Without the keys, Davis abandons the car, leaving the cat and the unconscious Roland behind. In Chicago, Davis auditions for Bud Grossman, who says he is not suited to be a solo performer but suggests he join a trio Grossman is forming. Davis rejects the offer and hitchhikes back to New York. Driving while the car owner sleeps, he hits a cat; it limps into the woods as Davis watches.  In New York, Davis uses his last $148 for back dues to rejoin the Merchant Marine union. He searches for his seaman's license so he can ship out, but it had been in the box he told his sister to trash. Davis returns to the Union Hall to replace it, but cannot afford the $85 fee. He visits Jean, who tells him she got him a gig at the Gaslight.  At the Gaslight, Davis learns that Pappi, the manager, also had sex with Jean. Davis is thrown out for drunkenly heckling a woman as she performs. He visits the Gorfeins, who graciously welcome him, and learns that the novelty song is likely to be a major hit with massive royalties. He is amazed to see that their actual cat, Ulysses, found his way home.  An expanded version of the film's opening scene is repeated, showing that that scene had been a flash forward.  Davis performs at the Gaslight. Pappi teases him for heckling the previous evening's singer and says that a friend of his is waiting in the alley. As he leaves, Davis watches a young Bob Dylan perform the song ‘Farewell’. Behind the Gaslight, he is beaten by the suited man for having cruelly heckled his wife, the previous night's performer. Davis watches as the man leaves in a taxi, bidding him "Au revoir".