Selah Summers is a senior at the elite Haldwell Boarding School in Pennsylvania, where she leads a drug-dealing faction of students known as the Spades. Unlike the school's four other factions- the Sea, the Skins, the Bobbies, and the Prefects- the Spades have not yet nominated a candidate to replace Selah as their leader when she graduates.  As the leader of the Spades, Selah has developed a highly efficient operation with her right-hand man, Maxxie. When a new girl, Paloma, transfers to the school and photographs Selah during her Spirit Squad practice, Selah quickly recognizes her perceptiveness and talent. She tasks Paloma with taking photos of her rival Bobby (the leader of the Bobbies) cheating on her boyfriend with Two Tom (the leader of the Prefects), thrusting Paloma into the center of the factions' heated rivalry. Selah explains to Maxxie that Paloma reminds her of herself, and that she intends to begin grooming her to become the next leader of the Spades.  Tarit, the leader of the Sea, informs Selah of a possible rat within her ranks. Selah receives a call from her mother demanding she return home, where she is confronted about her failure to respond to a college acceptance letter. Her mother recounts the parable of The Scorpion and the Frog, implying that she is aware of Selah's dark nature and its need to be contained.  Back at school, Bobby confronts Selah about an incorrect drug order. After investigating, Selah discovers that Maxxie's carelessness allowed the aforementioned rat to steal the Spades' ledger. Selah interrogates the rat before pressuring Paloma into beating him.  The school's Headmaster announces that due to the recent severity of the factions' misconduct, the school prom has been cancelled. At an emergency meeting, Selah and Bobby angrily blame each other for the cancellation before Paloma suggests that they instead throw their own prom outside of the school grounds. The factions agree to work together, each facilitating a different aspect of the underground prom's setup.  In private, Bobby asks Paloma if she knows about Teela, Selah's previous protégé. She explains to Paloma that Selah drugged Teela, causing a car crash and her expulsion. When Paloma asks Selah about Teela, Selah refuses to give her a straight answer.   On their way to the prom, Selah slips pills into a bottle of alcohol and offers it to Paloma, who vomits and becomes unresponsive during the party. When Selah finds Maxxie and asks him about the potency of the pills, he quickly becomes worried. Selah and Maxxie search the forest for Paloma, who runs away from them in a daze. She stumbles over a railing on the edge of a cliff; as she manages to grab the railing, Selah and Maxxie hoist her to safety.