Henry VIII of England's marriage to his brother's widow, Catherine of Aragon, has not produced a male heir. Their only surviving child together is a daughter, Princess Mary, whom Henry fears cannot successfully rule as a woman. Meanwhile, Lady Mary Boleyn marries William Carey. Mary's uncle, Thomas Howard, Duke of Norfolk and her father, Sir Thomas Boleyn, plot to install Mary's younger sister, Anne, as Henry's mistress, hoping she will bear him a son and improve the family's status. Anne accepts.  Henry is injured in a hunting accident. Henry becomes smitten with Mary, who tends his wounds and invites Mary, her husband, and the Boleyn family to court. Mary and Anne become ladies-in-waiting to Queen Catherine while William Carey is sent abroad. Mary begins an affair with the King and falls in love with him. Anne secretly marries Henry Percy, a nobleman betrothed to Lady Mary Talbot. Anne reveals her marriage to her brother, George Boleyn, who informs Mary. Mary alerts her father and uncle, who forcibly annul the union, keeping its existence secret. Anne is then sent to the French court.  Mary soon becomes pregnant with Henry's child. He rewards the Boleyn family by giving them new titles and estates, with George being betrothed to Jane Parker, whom he detests. Mary begins to experience pregnancy complications and is confined to bed until the child is born. Norfolk recalls Anne to distract Henry from seeking another mistress. Resentful that Henry initially preferred Mary, a revenge-driven Anne beguiles Henry. Mary gives birth to a son, but Anne points out to Henry that the boy is illegitimate and cannot inherit the throne. Henry rejects Mary and does not recognize her child as his son.   Anne refuses Henry's advances unless he no longer beds Catherine and stops speaking to Mary. This infuriates Norfolk until Anne reveals her intention to become queen and bear Henry a legitimate son. Mary and her child are exiled to the countryside. Mary's husband dies.  Anne pressures Henry to break from the Catholic Church when Pope Clement VII refuses to annul his marriage to Catherine. Henry learns some rumors of Anne's marriage to Percy; Mary is brought back to court but assures Henry that the rumors are false. She decides to stay at Anne's urging.   Henry declares himself Supreme Head of the Church of England, orders that his marriage be annulled, and banishes Catherine from court. When Anne refuses to consummate their relationship until they are married, Henry, overcome with rage and lust, rapes her. While deeply traumatized by the assault, Anne, now pregnant, marries Henry and becomes the new Queen of England.   Another daughter, Elizabeth, is born. Henry, disappointed there is still no male heir, begins to see Jane Seymour, Anne's lady-in-waiting, in secret. Anne is hated by the people, who denounce her as a witch, and she begins to develop paranoia as her marriage crumbles.   After miscarrying a son, Anne fears for her life and begs George to impregnate her. He agrees but is unable to go through with it. George's wife, Jane, is spying on Anne and reports her suspicions to Norfolk and the King. Anne and George are arrested on charges of incest, adultery and treason. Despite lacking evidence, the court finds both guilty and sentences them to death. Mary rushes back to London but arrives too late to save George, who is beheaded. Mary begs Henry for Anne's life and believes her sister will be spared since he says he wishes not to hurt Mary any further. The two sisters reconcile, and Anne asks Mary to look after Elizabeth.  A message from Henry is delivered to Mary. He urges her not to return to court and reveals that Anne will be executed. After Anne's execution, Mary leaves with the toddler Elizabeth, taking her to the country.   An epilogue reveals Thomas Boleyn died two years after the executions, Norfolk was later imprisoned and the next two generations of the Howard family were later executed for treason; Mary married William Stafford and lived away from court; and Elizabeth went on to rule England for over forty years as Queen Elizabeth I.