John Ottway is a broken soul. He works as a sharpshooter at a remote Alaskan oil facility, protecting the staff from frequent grey wolf attacks. Life has not been kind to John, as he lost his wife to a terminal illness, leaving him deeply depressed and apathetic towards life. On John’s last day of service, even while surrounded by his colleagues, he feels an intense urge to end his own life. He understands that his pain and sorrow can never be truly healed, no matter how much his companions support him. He realizes that the only way to find peace is from himself and the solace of his own mortality. One foot in reality and one foot in death, John stares into the abyss of his own mind, unsure of which course of action to take. Until ultimately, he just wants it all to end.  The next day, he embarks on a return flight to Anchorage with his fellow workers from the oil company. Unfortunately, just after takeoff, their plane crashes in an icy wilderness. The few remaining survivors  set up in the plane wreckage during the night. To their surprise, they notice that one of their fellow survivors has been attacked and killed by wolves -- without the knowledge of the group. Ottway, the leader of the survivors, explains that the wolves must have a den nearby and feel threatened, and the best course of action to deter the wolves away from the group would be to move away from the den, which would be risky. Not expecting a rescue, the group decides to leave the crash site the following morning.  While searching for the valuables and wallets of the deceased to return to their families, Diaz finds a wristwatch with an emergency radio beacon which he hopes will send a rescue signal.  The remaining survivors, burdened by their misfortune, continue their journey south towards a warmer climate. With Ottway leading the way, they carefully trek through the frozen landscape, doing their best to stay away from danger. Todd is not so lucky. He strays from the group and is killed by a pack of ravenous wolves. At nightfall, the group is attacked again and they seek refuge in the forest, where they light several campfires to ward off the predators. During this time, Diaz, overwhelmed with stress, snaps and threatens Ottway with a knife. Ottway disarms him before the situation escalates; however, a lone wolf suddenly appears out of the darkness and charges at Diaz. With quick reflexes, the group manages to kill the animal and subsequently cooks and eats it. Ottway speculates that the wolf was likely an omega sent by the alpha wolf to test the group's abilities. Enraged, Diaz then beheads the wolf’s carcass and throws the severed head at the pack, causing them to howl in protest.  While the group sits around the campfire that night, Diaz discusses his beliefs and declares that he's an atheist, which is met with understanding and respect. Talget, wanting to make his own declaration of faith, states that while he also doesn't believe, he has faith in God and speaks lovingly of his daughter. Ottway joins the discussion, expressing his atheist beliefs as well.  He says that he wishes  he could have faith and recites a poem his father wrote about love and faith. The next day, in the harrowing cold, they find Burke, one of their members, dead due to hypoxia. In order to find a way out of the wilderness, the survivors must navigate their way across a canyon. It is a daunting task, and they attempt to use an anchor-rope on a nearby tree to lower themselves off the edge. However, the attempt ends in tragedy when Talget falls to the ground, and is killed by a pack of wolves. In an attempt to save him, Diaz also falls, and though he is able to survive the fall, his knee is damaged.  Eventually, Diaz, Ottway, and Henrick arrive at a river, where Diaz, injured, dispirited and exhausted, wearily surrenders to his fate.  He tells his companions his journey has come to an end and he is unable to go any further. After leaving him, Ottway and Henrick continue their trek, and are again pursued by the wolfpack.  Anticipating danger, Ottway and Henrick scramble for safety. During the pursuit Henrick falls into the river, is washed downstream by the rushing current, and becomes trapped underwater when his leg gets caught under some rocks and a tree trunk. Ottway, powerless to rescue him, watches with a heavy heart as his friend drowns in the river. Ottway then stumbles into a clearing, exhausted and suffering from hypothermia. He takes the wallets and watch of the dead passengers and arranges them in the shape of a cross.  In his last moments, he mourns his lost companions and recalls the poem (written by his father many years ago) he had been reciting throughout the journey. Alone in the clearing, Ottway suddenly realizes he has arrived at the heart of the wolves' den and comes face to face with the alpha of the pack.   Facing certain death, Ottway gathers his last reserves of strength and courage (while recalling his deceased wife's last words to "[not] be afraid") and decides to not go down without a fight.  He arms himself with a knife and the shards of liquor bottles taped to his hand. As the alpha and Ottway charge at one another, the screen cuts to black, leaving us unsure of the outcome.  In the post-credits scene, Ottway and the alpha wolf present a breathtaking and powerful moment as they lie dying and exhausted together following their intense battle. Despite the ferocity of their fight, an uncanny bond has been made between the man and the animal.