In 1959 Chicago, the Younger family is expecting a life insurance check of $10,000 after the death of Walter Lee’s father. Walter Lee wants to spend the money to invest in a liquor store with his partner Bobo, hoping that it will put an end to his wife Ruth and son Travis' financial troubles while his sister Beneatha, who had recently accepted a date with George Murchinson, would use it to pay her medical school tuition. Lena, the mother of Walter Lee, who had just quit her job, would rather spend it on a house she and her deceased husband Walter Lee Sr. "Big Walter" dreamed of.  At the Green Hat club, Walter Lee and Bobo discuss how they will invest in their liquor store when Willy Harris, a friend, chips in by telling them how they can get their business license from people in Springfield and that they could move the business near the Green Hat, with Walter Lee and Bobo agreeing. The next day, Beneatha and Lena discover that Ruth has been pregnant for two months, with Ruth fearing for their financial issues as the new child would add to them. Beneatha invites Joseph over, who gives her some Nigerian music and a wrapper and an invite to dinner on Monday. Thinking that he has feelings for her, Beneatha scorns him. Later on, the check arrives, to Beneatha, Lena, Ruth, and Travis' joy, only for that joy to end when Walter Lee tells Lena about his future liquor business, much to Lena's dismay, who informs him of Ruth being pregnant and planning to get an abortion. Although Lena is against abortion, Walter Lee voices no objection to it.  Later that night, Beneatha dresses Nigerian for a date with George Murchinson. George calls her out for being "eccentric" and boasts about how her heritage means nothing, when Walter Lee comes in, noticing George and rants about how he has it made. Just then, Lena comes in, telling them that she spent the money on a house in Clybourne Park, to everyone's joy except for Walter.  The next day, Lena receives a call from Mrs. Arnold, the wife of Walter Lee's employer about him missing work, prompting Lena to find him. Lena finds Walter Lee at the Green Hat, and he reluctantly returns. Meanwhile, Ruth tries to get an abortion with help from Miss Tilly, who works at a salon. Discovering how the process works, Ruth changes her mind and leaves. At a café, Lena reveals to Walter Lee that she spent $3,500 for the house, leaving Walter Lee with $6,500. She tells Walter to deposit $3,000 for Beneatha's tuition and take the remain $3,500 for himself.  The next day, the Youngers explore the new house, much to their white neighbors' disgust. A man from the Clybourne Park Improvement Association named Karl Lindner arrives to offer the Youngers money in return for staying away, but they refuse the deal. Just then, Bobo arrives and has a private talk with Walter Lee, revealing that he gave all of the money to Willy and that Willy never showed up at the train station. Walter comes back in, revealing that all the money is gone, to everyone's shock.  Later, Joseph arrives and consoles Beneatha, which she and the rest of the Youngers are back at the apartment. As Ruth tries to persuade a now hopeless Lena that they can still afford the house, Walter arrives, explaining how life is divided between "the takers and the tooken," which is why he made a call to Karl so he can receive more money from him for the house. When Lindner arrives to sign the papers, Walter Lee has a change of heart and calls off the deal, telling him that they will move into the house. The Youngers get ready to move into their new home.