Structural engineer John Garrity lives in Atlanta, Georgia USA with his estranged wife, Allison, and their diabetic son, Nathan. He returns home to watch the near-earth passing of a recently-discovered interstellar comet nicknamed "Clarke", along with his family and neighbors.  While at the supermarket, John receives an automated Department of Homeland Security (DHS) message saying that he and his family have been selected for emergency sheltering. He then returns home just as a comet fragment is seen entering the atmosphere on live television. Previously expected to land in the ocean near Bermuda, the fragment instead strikes Tampa, Florida vaporizing the city along with most of the state. John then receives a call with instructions to head to Robins Air Force Base for an evacuation flight, as Clarke is on a direct collision course with Earth and the entire planet will be bombarded with hundreds of fragments over the next two days in a cataclysmic event, with one fragment so  big it could cause an extinction-level event. John, Allison, and Nathan pack up and flee, unable to take anyone else with them as they would be denied boarding.  On the way to the base, the Garritys are held back by a long line of traffic, so they must abandon their car. Nathan's insulin is left behind in the car. As John goes to retrieve it, Allison is escorted off the base after Nathan's medical condition is discovered, disqualifying him. John returns and boards a plane but quickly jumps off upon realizing Allison and Nathan were left behind.   As John exits the base, a panicked mob breaks in, blowing up and destroying several evacuation planes when gunfire ignites jet fuel. Returning to the car, John finds a note from Allison saying she and Nathan are going to her father's home in Lexington, Kentucky. After getting medical supplies from a looted store, Allison and Nathan hitch a ride from Ralph and Judy Vento, only for Ralph to kidnap Nathan in order to use him and the wristbands to board a flight.   John comes across a truck full of people heading towards Canada after the driver agrees to drop him off in Lexington. where a young man named Colin says it is headed to Osgoode, Ontario where private planes are flying to Greenland, which is believed to be the military evacuation site. Another man attempts to steal John's wristband, causing the truck to crash, killing Colin, and John is forced to kill the other man in self-defense. At another airport, the Ventos attempt to pose as Nathan's parents, but are arrested when the soldiers discover that Nathan is not their child. Allison and Nathan are reunited shortly after at a nearby Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) camp. The following morning, John learns that millions of people have died in global impacts and that the largest fragment will hit in approximately 24 hours.  Stealing a car, John reaches his father-in-law, Dale's house, and Nathan and Allison arrive shortly after. The family learn about a complex of underground bunkers near Pituffik Space Base in Greenland, confirming that's where the evacuees are being sent. The family has just enough time to reach Osgoode, so John and Allison decide to go while Dale chooses to stay behind and die in the impact, while giving them his truck. Reaching Upstate New York, the family is caught in a traffic jam. As a shower of molten debris rains down, they take refuge below an underpass, then continue on to Canada. While making steady progress to Osgoode, the family learns over the radio that Clarke's largest fragment, which is  wide, will hit Western Europe and obliterate it. The family arrives at the Osgoode airport barely in time to board that night's last flight out. As they reach Greenland, a comet fragment strikes off the coast which emits a shockwave, hitting the plane and causing it to crash-land, killing the pilots. The Garritys and the rest of the passengers flag down a military truck and enter the bunker complex right as the largest fragment enters the atmosphere and hits, devastating civilization.  Nine months later, the bunker is able make radio contact with other survivors as various cities are shown in total ruin, including Sydney, Chicago, Paris, and Mexico City. The Garritys and other occupants exit the shelter to a radically changed landscape. All are relieved to hear each other and report that the atmosphere is finally clearing, giving the survivors the chance to rebuild.