Paul Matthews is a mild-mannered biology professor who starts inexplicably appearing in the dreams of people around the world, typically as a reserved and emotionless bystander within uncanny and amusing events. Paul's journalist ex-girlfriend Claire spots him with his wife Janet and tells him that he was appearing in her dreams. Claire asks to write about these occurrences and Paul agrees. She links his picture and Facebook profile in the article, leading to hundreds of people who had never met Paul recognizing him as the figure from their dreams. While Paul revels in the attention and media coverage this brings, he is frustrated by his depiction in the dreams as passive and uninteresting. Janet asks Paul why he isn't appearing in her dreams and tells him that she would want to dream of him rescuing her while wearing an old Halloween costume inspired by an oversized suit that Talking Heads frontman David Byrne often wore during concerts.  After a mentally ill person sees Paul in his dreams, he breaks into his house and tries to kill him, prompting Paul to sign with a PR firm. Trent, a member of the firm, attempts to sell Paul on becoming a Sprite spokesman to no avail as Paul is more interested in using the firm to get his book proposal to a publisher. An assistant at the company admits to Paul that she has had erotic dreams about him and they attempt to reenact one despite Paul being married, but he involuntarily flatulates due to stress and leaves humiliated. Later, Paul is enraged to learn that a former colleague has published a paper on the subject he was thinking of writing his book about.  Paul's presence in the dreams suddenly becomes actively violent and hateful. Paul is put on leave from teaching after students refuse to enroll in his classes. Bystanders begin to notice Paul in public and are bothered by his presence, resulting in a brawl in a diner. Janet's own career begins to be affected by Paul's reputation, and she asks him to consider issuing a public apology; but he angrily rejects her suggestion. Upon having a nightmare where he is hunted and killed by himself with a crossbow, Paul releases a self-pitying apology video, and a humiliated Janet makes him leave the house. Paul tries to force his way into his younger daughter's school play that he was asked to not attend, only to accidentally injure a teacher in the process and be subdued and restrained by the other attendees.  Sometime later, the dreams have stopped, and dream-traveling technology has been invented in light of the discovery of a shared dream subconsciousness, primarily to be used for advertising. With Janet having separated from Paul and dating her co-worker, Paul goes on a mediocre tour in France to sell his autobiography Dream Scenario, which has been retitled I Am Your Nightmare without his consent. Paul later uses the dream-travel technology to venture into one of Janet's dreams and save her life while wearing the David Byrne suit costume. Paul wishes the dream to be real before floating away as Janet awakens.