On his way to deliver a goods train to Bridlington on the Mainland, Henry suffers an accident due to a faulty signal in Vicarstown and has to be taken to the Steamworks for repairs. Thomas the Tank Engine is upset that Sir Topham Hatt has chosen James, who has been teasing him, thinking he’s Sir Topham Hatt’s favorite Engine, to take the train in Henry's place. Thomas collects the goods train before James does so he can take it to Bridlington himself. However, the Troublesome Trucks disorient him and they go the wrong way.   Thomas eventually finds himself at a massive Steelworks factory run by two engines: Hurricane and Frankie, who invite him to stay. Thomas initially declines but the Steelworks engines eventually persuade him as it is already very late. Later the next day, Thomas learns that Hurricane delivered his train to Bridlington during the night and Frankie convinces him to help out at the Steelworks as to return the favor. However, they refuse to let Thomas leave and continue to force him to work for them, but Thomas escapes during the night.   Meanwhile, back on Sodor, Sir Topham Hatt gets worried that the goods have been delayed later than its expected time and gets more worried about Thomas. However, he then tells Percy not to worry as Thomas has just been delayed and James tries hard to convince Sir Topham Hatt for him to go to the Mainland to save Thomas, which Sir Topham Hatt refuses as he can't afford to lose another train, leaving James temporarily in charge of Thomas's Branch lines. Percy suggests James go to the mainland himself to find Thomas. Searching for him at Bridlington goods yard, the trucks from the goods train tell him they were brought by Hurricane. Despite not knowing who is this, James asks if anyone has seen Hurricane. Hurricane, who is at the goods yard, takes James to the Steelworks.   The next day, Thomas asks three experimental engines: Lexi and Theo, who helped him get more coal and water earlier, and Merlin, who Lexi and Theo told him about, if they can help him get back to Sodor. They are unable to. So Thomas continues his journey home, and meets Beresford again, a crane whom he also previously met after he got lost. When he hears Frankie and Hurricane coming by him, Beresford hides him using his hook, only to see Hurricane and Frankie taking James to the Steelworks. Thomas enlists the help of the experimental engines to rescue James from being captured too. Theo and Lexi distract Hurricane and Frankie while Thomas and Merlin try to help James escape. The plan quickly goes downhill, a wild chase ensues in the Steelworks, James is saved but Thomas is put in harm's way when he almost gets melted by molten slag. Hurricane selflessly pushes him out of the way causing his wheels to melt as a result. Frankie claims that Hurricane will not be able to help her make deliveries. She breaks down and explains that they are overworked at the Steelworks, which is why they tried to enslave Thomas and James, and that either nobody wants to work at the factory or just too. Thomas suggests that the experimental engines work with them at the Steelworks. The experimental engines say that although that they do fail at things, they are happy to try.  On their way back to Sodor, Thomas and James apologize to each other. Thomas explains to James that being friends is more important than being the favorite and they happily return home. Henry returns and asks what he missed in his absence.