In Harlem, Manhattan, New York City, Annie Bennett lives in foster care with several other girls under the care of Colleen Hannigan, a bitter former member of C+C Music Factory who spends her days drinking, trying to snag a sweetheart, and giving various grueling chores to the orphans under her care. Annie spends Fridays waiting outside Domani's restaurant, believing her parents will come for her because a note written on a receipt from Domani's says they will return. When a city inspector checks on Miss Hannigan's treatment of the girls, Annie takes advantage of the situation; she manages to copy her social security number from his clipboard and heads off to get her information. Annie learns that there is no more information about her on her record than what she already knows.  While attempting to save a Shiba Inu from bullies, Annie is nearly run over but is saved by Will Stacks, a germaphobic cellphone mogul running for Mayor of New York City. Stacks' rescue of Annie goes viral on the Internet, boosting his popularity; per suggestion of Stacks' campaign manager Guy Danlily, Annie moves in with Stacks to boost his popularity further. Annie enjoys her new surroundings, befriending Stacks' assistant Grace Farrell. Annie also gets to adopt the stray dog from before, naming her Sandy. Bonding with Annie, Stacks reveals that he had humble beginnings in Queens; he never really knew his father due to his work hours, but believed he could understand him if he worked just as hard. Annie also helps Grace and Stacks realize that they like each other romantically.  Per Annie's request, Stacks takes her and her friends in Miss Hannigan's foster care to see the premiere of MoonQuake Lake. Stacks is uninterested in the movie at first, but soon becomes a major fan along with Grace. Per Annie and Grace's insistence, Stacks joins the premiere party. After returning her friends home, Annie shows Grace her Friday routine of waiting to see if her parents will return; Grace sympathizes, agreeing to keep this a secret from Stacks. At Miss Hannigan's, the girls accidentally wake her; Miss Hannigan snaps at them, saying rich people are selfish and will ditch anyone they do not like anymore; thus recalling her own past. Slightly hung over, she laments about her situation of foster kids and her desire to reclaim stardom.  Annie is invited to a charity event, where she speaks about how grateful she is for all the opportunities she's been presented. When Annie is asked to read a speech, she runs off and reveals that she does not know how to read (despite being 10 years old and attending school). Teaming up with Miss Hannigan, Guy plans to have impostors claim Annie as their daughter to boost Stacks' popularity to the point where he wins; Guy will then share his payment with Miss Hannigan. However, Guy doesn't care about Annie's well-being, planning to dump Annie back into the foster care system after the election and cutting Miss Hannigan out of the deal.  By the time Miss Hannigan has a change of heart, Annie has already been kidnapped by the imposters. Miss Hannigan tells Stacks about Guy's role in the scheme, and Stacks fires him. Stacks, Grace, Miss Hannigan, Lou and the girls board Stacks' helicopter; aided by the police, they chase the getaway car into the park. The kidnappers believe that Stacks paid them to kidnap Annie rather than Guy, so Annie gets upset and chastises Stacks, thinking he set up the kidnapping and rescue. To prove his innocence, Stacks announces to the press his withdrawal from the mayoral race, after which Annie helps Grace and Stacks admit their love for each other. All three dance and sing happily as they are streamed onto telly.  Annie announces the opening of the "Stacks Literacy Centre", to help children like herself, who cannot read. Everyone sings Annie's "Tomorrow" and Stacks adopts Pepper, Tessie, and Mia as well with Sandy. Humorously, Miss Hannigan attempts to continue singing after the song is done, only to receive stares that cue her to stop.