During the 2011 ICCA Finals at the Lincoln Center, Barden University's all-female a cappella group, the Barden Bellas, loses to their all-male rival group, the Barden Treblemakers, due to junior member Aubrey Posen vomiting onstage in the middle of her solo. This incident loses the Bellas prestige and respect both in the a cappella community and on campus. Four months later, aspiring DJ Beca Mitchell enrolls as a freshman at Barden University at the insistence of her father (a professor at the university), despite having no desire to attend college. To her father's chagrin, Beca spends her time making mash-up mixes of songs and even gets an internship at the school radio station, where she gets to know fellow freshman Jesse Swanson.  At the university's activities fair, now-seniors Aubrey and Chloe Beale are attempting to recruit new members for the Bellas, but find interest in their group has decreased significantly after the on-stage incident the previous year. Beca walks by their booth and is invited to join the Bellas, but she declines and claims she can't sing. Later, Chloe corners Beca after hearing her sing in the shower and convinces her to audition. Beca arrives late for the audition, but Chloe allows her to perform for them anyway. She sings a rendition of "Cups (When I'm Gone)", earning herself a place in the Bellas alongside fellow newcomers: the tough Cynthia Rose Adams, the flirtatious Stacie Conrad, the unusually quiet Lilly Onakuramara, the bubbly Jessica Smith, the alto Ashley Jones, the comedic Patricia "Fat Amy" Hobart, and the meek Denise. Meanwhile, Jesse joins the Treblemakers.  After some sorority shenanigans and significant training, the Bellas participate in the 2012 ICCA Regionals, where, at Aubrey's insistence, they perform the same medley that helped the Bellas advance to the Finals the previous year. In spite of their stale setlist, the group manages to place second, sending them to the Semi-Finals. After the competition, the Bellas try to break up a fight between the Treblemakers and the Tonehangers, a male alumni a cappella group. Beca and Fat Amy accidentally smash a window with the Treblemakers' trophy, alerting police who then arrest Beca. Jesse contacts her dad to bail her out, and Beca's frustration causes a rift in her relationship with both. Aubrey insists on performing the same medley a third time, despite Beca urging them to be more daring. In the midst of their next on-stage performance, Beca inserts an impromptu layering of "Bulletproof" into the set, hoping to reinvigorate the uninterested crowd.   The crowd does appear to respond to this change, but Aubrey angrily berates Beca for this and ends up accusing her of hooking up with Jesse— a rule breach punishable by ejection from the Bellas. Jesse overhears and attempts to deny it, leading Beca to snap at them both and quit the Bellas. Despite the judges and crowd enjoying Beca's improvization, the Bellas do not advance to the Finals due to their third-place ranking behind the Treblemakers and the Footnotes. However, Jesse's roommate Benji Applebaum finds out that Footnotes leader Timothy is a high school student and reports it, disqualifying the Footnotes and allowing the Bellas to advance to the Finals. After spring break, Beca tries to reconcile with Jesse, but he rejects her and accuses her of pushing away everyone who cares about her.  During the Bellas' next rehearsal, growing tensions push Chloe to stand up to Aubrey, sparking a giant fight over the pitch pipe. Beca walks in on this fight and breaks it up, then apologizes to the Bellas for changing the set without Aubrey's permission and asks to be given a second chance. After all of the Bellas have a heart-to-heart conversation, Beca rejoins the group, and Aubrey relinquishes her half of the leadership to Beca. Chloe discovers that after her spring break node removal surgery, she is able to sing bass notes. Meanwhile, Treblemakers leader Bumper Allen leaves the group after being offered a job as a back-up singer for John Mayer. With Bumper gone, Jesse persuades the Trebles to let Benji join the group in Bumper's place, a position Benji was previously denied in spite of his impressive audition.  At the Finals, the Bellas perform a modern piece arranged by Beca, which includes "Don't You (Forget About Me)", featured in The Breakfast Club, one of Jesse's favorite movies. This acts as a more effective apology, and after the performance, she and Jesse kiss. Chloe's new ability to hit bass notes contributes to a fuller, more dynamic sound in the Bellas performance. The Bellas defeat the Treblemakers and win the national championship. Six months later, auditions for new members take place.