After a 17-year absence, Mikey "Saber" Davies returns to his hometown of Texas City, Texas. Badly bruised and destitute, he arrives at the modest home shared by his estranged wife Lexi and her mother Lil, begging them to let him stay. They reluctantly agree but insist that he get a job and do household chores. He tries to find work at a diner and Dollar General store, but is hindered by a long gap in his résumé. After he admits to potential employers that he spent those years working as a porn star in Los Angeles, they refuse to hire him. Desperate, he persuades drug dealer Leondria to give him back his old job selling marijuana. Leondria and her daughter June suspect that Mikey will smoke it himself, but their business arrangement continues after he returns with his earnings.  After sleeping on the couch for several nights, Mikey starts having sex with Lexi. Eventually, she invites him to share her bedroom. Mikey gives Lexi and Lil a month's rent in advance and takes them to a donut shop to celebrate. He becomes smitten with Raylee, a 17-year-old girl who works at the counter and goes by the name Strawberry. He returns and persuades her to let him sell marijuana to the construction workers who frequent the shop. They soon start a sexual relationship.  Mikey befriends Lexi's neighbor Lonnie, who is intrigued by Mikey's stories about his porn career and sexual encounters. They visit a strip club and spend time together, but Mikey becomes upset when he discovers Lonnie pretending to be an Army veteran at a local mall. Mikey causes Strawberry to break up with Nash, her high school boyfriend, after finding out she was not single when they met. Nash and his parents confront Mikey in the donut shop parking lot and beat him up.  Mikey repeatedly tries to persuade Strawberry to travel with him to Los Angeles to pursue a career in pornography. She and Mikey grow closer, causing him to grow more distant from Lexi. When he disappears for a weekend with Strawberry, Lexi grows suspicious and they get into an argument. Mikey berates her and brags about the $3,000 he made selling drugs. While riding in Lonnie's car, Mikey causes Lonnie to swerve across traffic at a highway off-ramp, creating a multiple-vehicle collision which results in several injuries. Mikey and Lonnie flee the scene of the accident, and Mikey begs Lonnie to hide his involvement. Mikey is anxious but Lonnie assumes responsibility for the crash when he is arrested.  Using the crash as an excuse, Mikey visits Strawberry at work and asks her to come to Los Angeles with him and start her porn career. She agrees and quits her job. That night, Mikey tells Lexi that he is leaving for Los Angeles in the morning. Lexi and Lil convince Leondria to send June and her brothers to seize the $3,000 that Mikey earned from selling pot. Leondria's children confront him while he is sleeping and take the money. June forces Mikey to leave naked out of the bedroom window and he runs to Leondria's house, begging her to return his money. She gives Mikey $200 and tells him to leave or face violence. Humiliated, he leaves with a few possessions in a trash bag. After traveling all night on foot to Strawberry's house, he imagines seeing her dressed in a bikini in her doorway as his eyes well with tears.