At a Washington, D.C. farmers' market, lonely Sadie meets Cole, a romantically needy vendor. They share an enjoyable all-night date, culminating in sex, and Cole returns home but his texts to Sadie go unanswered. Cole's sister suspects she is "ghosting" him, but their parents convince him to surprise Sadie in London, after locating her via a tracker on his inhaler that he accidentally left in her bag.  In London, Cole is abducted to Pakistan by arms dealers who believe him to be legendary CIA operative "the Taxman". Before he can be tortured with insects to extract a passcode, he is rescued by Sadie, who reveals herself to be the Taxman. After a chase through the Khyber Pass, they escape Cole's captors, who are working for Leveque, a disgraced French Intelligence agent selling a stolen bioweapon called "Aztec", for which he needs the passcode.  Reaching a nearby town, Cole and Sadie argue over their lies to each other, and meet Marco, her old contact and former lover. He warns Cole that Sadie cares more about the success of a mission than her boyfriends' lives, and agrees to take him home. Their plan is interrupted by a succession of bounty hunters after Leveque puts a price on Cole's head; Marco is killed, but the bounty hunters all kill each other. Learning that Leveque is seeking the passcode, Sadie is determined to recover Aztec using Cole as bait.  Sadie delivers Cole to Leveque, who leaves his henchman, Wagner, on a plane with Sadie, Cole, and the locked case containing Aztec. Their cover is blown when Wagner discovers a picture of the two in bed together on Cole's phone, but Cole parachutes to safety with the Aztec case and a wounded Sadie. Landing on Socotra Island, he uses his agricultural knowledge to treat her, reconnecting with her in the process. They are ambushed by Leveque's men, and Wagner escapes with the case while Cole and Sadie are rescued by U.S. Marines.  At CIA headquarters, Sadie is suspended for losing Aztec and tries to apologize for putting Cole in danger, but he is hurt by her commitment to her mission above all else. He helps to decipher the passcode, and agrees to continue to masquerade as the Taxman, luring Leveque with an offer to sell it.   Leveque meets Cole at a revolving restaurant with his own buyer for Aztec, Mr. Utami, and has the agents monitoring Cole killed. Sadie arrives, restoring Cole's trust in her, and she sells the passcode to Mr. Utami for $10 million. She immediately uses the money to place a bounty on Leveque, and they are suddenly surrounded by bounty hunters.  A gunfight erupts, damaging the revolving mechanism and spinning the restaurant at high speed. Leveque shoots Utami, and Cole kills Wagner by throwing him into the mechanism. Sadie manages to send Leveque crashing through a window to his death and narrowly saves the Aztec device. Rekindling their relationship, Sadie meets Cole's family, as they find time for each other between—and during—her missions.