Nursing student Henry O'Shea (Joseph Cross), who suddenly finds himself the 'head' of his family, after the death of his father, takes a leave from school to support his mother, getting a job as a New York doorman. As a former nursing student, Henry has occasion to help Scarlett (Sarah Roemer), a resident's daughter, with some difficult situations involving his medical knowledge.  After Henry saves Scarlett's boyfriend from dying of an overdose, she takes him out to thank him for his help and they make a connection. Shortly after, Scarlett's mother (Mimi Rogers) happens to be going through Scarlett's digital camera, and finds pictures of them together.  She immediately calls Henry's boss and has Henry fired.  When Scarlett finds out, she admonishes her mother and promises to date whomever she pleases, regardless of station in life.  She attempts to find Henry, but is unsuccessful.  Hank's sister Kate shows up in the lobby of the building and insists upon talking to Scarlett, who accompanies her for a walk in the city, and they discuss Henry's job and his future.  Meanwhile, Henry finds out his mother is working at a sex shop in the city. While he's freaking out about the job she chose, Scarlett shows up and tries to rekindle what they started on their date.  Henry rejects her, saying she's too much for him because of her socioeconomic status in contrast to his.  Not long after, Henry is walking around the city lamenting his station in life and the dressing down he received from his mother regarding his attitude toward his own worth and the worth of his family, and realizes he made a mistake with Scarlett. He goes to the front desk of the building Scarlett lives in, and Raul (another doorman, played by Snoop Dogg) tells him Scarlett went to a club in the city with her family.  After being denied entry by the doorman, he sneaks into the club and dresses up as a chef to get some face time with Scarlett.  After causing a scene, he gives a rousing, 'we belong together,' speech and Scarlett leaves with him.