In October 1918, Major Charles Whittlesey is ordered by Major General Robert Alexander to lead roughly 550 soldiers of the United States Army's 77th Infantry Division into the Argonne forest to repel the German advance. Alexander has little faith in Whittlesey, mocking his status as an "overeducated New York lawyer", and describes his men as "acceptable losses"; much to Whittlesey's dismay. Whittlesey's men, part of the American Expeditionary Forces, consist largely of immigrants and poor working class men from the Lower East Side of New York City. He is assisted in command by Captain George McMurty, a veteran of the Rough Riders, and James Leak, an inexperienced lieutenant from Texas.  Whittlesey and his men fight their way through the German line, believing they are going to be joined by American and French forces on their flanks. However, unbeknownst to them, these forces had retreated, leaving the Battalion completely surrounded. They are soon joined by riflemen commanded by Captain Nelson Holderman. Whittlesey attempts to send several runners to headquarters, but none return. He uses carrier pigeons to communicate with Alexander, who despite having knowledge of the retreat, orders the battalion to push on. During the siege, American artillery begins falling on the 77th's line, killing numerous men via friendly fire. Whittlesey manages to send a pigeon to headquarters with a message asking the artillery to cease. The barrage ends, but the Germans attack the disoriented Americans. However, the 77th repels the Germans in fierce close-quarters combat.  After several days and numerous repelled attacks, the Americans hold the line despite being desperately low on supplies, forcing them to reuse medical supplies and take food off dead soldiers. The Germans capture Lt. Leak and a wounded soldier, and begin using them to try to negotiate with Whittlesey. Lt. Leak receives good treatment from a German officer who speaks fluent English. He tries to convince Leak that there is no shame in surrender, but Leak indicates his men will never surrender, referring to them as "New York gangsters". The second prisoner eventually agrees to take a message from the Germans to Whittlesey urging surrender after his captor says he wants to save lives. The Germans send him escorted by white flag back to the American line with the message. Whittlesey responds by throwing the flag back towards the Germans, and the Americans continue to hold despite relentless attacks.  Eventually, an American pilot is sent to search for the 77th and flies over their position. Realizing it is an American plane, the 77th make noise to try to get the pilot's attention, and the Germans begin firing at him. The pilot is mortally wounded, but manages to pinpoint the location on his map and navigate back to the airfield. After six days, reinforcements finally arrive at the American lines and the Germans retreat five days later. Major General Alexander arrives to congratulate Whittlesey who is furious about the debacle. Alexander reveals that the battalion's hold enabled the Americans to break through the entire German line. Alexander offers to take Whittlesey back to headquarters in his car, but Whittlesey refuses, opting to stay with his men. Roughly 197 of the 550 men survive the battle.  World War I ends just three weeks later. Whittlesey is awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions, and the "Lost Battalion" gains iconic status.