Joseph Krauzenberg is a wealthy Hungarian Jewish industrial tycoon whose fortune is mirrored in the great properties he owns. By 1944, his factories and banks are needed by the Nazis, as Hitler's 'Final Solution' is sweeping through Europe.  The Nazis are greedy to accumulate wealth as easily as possible, and under the terms of the Third Reich's "Europa Plan", Krauzenberg arranges with Nazi leaders to exchange his business holdings and his collection of rare art for safe passage to Switzerland for himself, his wife Rachel, and their family. As the night of transaction approaches, Krauzenberg visits his large family being held by the Gestapo, and reassures them that all will be safe.  Such is Krauzenberg's wealth and power that when he agrees to sign over his property, it is two of the most powerful men in the Nazi regime who announce they will be coming to his house to handle the paperwork – Adolf Eichmann and Heinrich Himmler. As the Nazi leaders are ushered into Krauzenberg's home, they are struck by something unusual – Krauzenberg's two most trusted servants, married Aryan couple Hans and Ingrid Vassmann, are breaking the law by working for Jews.  As it happens, Eichmann and Himmler's suspicions are well-founded – despite appearing to be the perfect Aryan couple, Hans and Ingrid are actually Jews working deep undercover with the underground Resistance. Young, in love and expecting their first child, they work as valet and maid for the elderly Jewish couple.  In a sub-plot, Nazi officer Edelhein, the most repulsive of the group, pursues Ingrid – despite her pregnancy – as a perfect foil for implanting his precious seed in the 'Aryan beauty' to populate the new Germany.  As they have regular contact with the Nazis, in their roles as servants, Hans and Ingrid consider taking the opportunity to kill Eichmann and Himmler for the greater good, even if it would mean certain death for the Krauzenbergs and themselves. Instead, the Vassmans place their fate in the hands of the Krauzenbergs, express their admiration for them and confessing that they are Jewish and wish to escape with them.  However, little can be done, as the Krauzenbergs have already submitted the list of people traveling with them.  On his way to the plane that is to take him and his family to the safety of Switzerland, Josef Krauzenberg makes an unknown deal with German Captain Dressler. Dressler then deceives Eichmann, thus giving the Vassmans the means to escape.  The Vassmans are confronted at the last checkpoint before Switzerland by Edelhein, who has discovered Dressler's treachery and has pursued them for the so-called murder of a German soldier, and of course for being Jews. However, Himmler wants to avoid any bloodshed that could ruin his agreement regarding the Krauzenberg properties, and has sent word that the Vassmans are allowed to pass freely and safely. Angered that he has lost his chance to 'plant his seed' in Ingrid, Edelhein disregards Himmler's orders, and attempts to stop the Vassmans. Under Himmler's orders to allow the Aryan Couple through, the Major commanding the crossing kills Edelhein.  The film ends with the Vassmans reunited safely in Switzerland with the Krauzenbergs.