After an air raid during World War II, the Pevensie children (Peter, Susan, Edmund, Lucy) are evacuated from London to the country home of Professor Kirke.  During a game of hide-and-seek, Lucy discovers a wardrobe and hides inside, only to find that she has entered a magical winter world. She encounters a faun named Mr. Tumnus, who tells her she is in Narnia. Tumnus puts Lucy to sleep by playing a flute lullaby; when she wakes up, he explains that the White Witch has cursed Narnia to eternally experience winter and never Christmas; any humans encountered are to be brought to her. Unable to hand over Lucy, Tumnus quickly sends her back home, where she finds that hardly any time has passed in the real world.  Lucy later returns through the wardrobe, followed by Edmund. Edmund meets the White Witch and tells her about Tumnus. The Witch offers him Turkish delight and kingship if he brings his siblings to her. In the real world, Lucy informs Peter and Susan, but Edmund lies out of spite. Professor Kirke, however, suggests Lucy is telling the truth.  While fleeing the housekeeper after accidentally breaking a window, the four siblings retreat to the wardrobe and enter Narnia. They discover that the Witch has taken Tumnus, and meet talking beavers, who say Aslan plans to return and regain control of Narnia, and that there is a prophecy that when two sons of Adam and two daughters of Eve sit on the thrones of Cair Paravel, the Witch's reign will end.  Edmund sneaks off to visit the Witch, but she is furious that he came without his siblings. She sends wolves to find the children, and Edmund is imprisoned, where he meets Tumnus. The children and beavers escape, and the Witch turns Tumnus to stone.  Peter, Lucy, Susan, and the beavers encounter Father Christmas, a sign that the Witch's power is weakening. He gives them tools to defend themselves — Lucy receives a cordial that can heal any injury; Susan a magical horn, and a bow and quiver of arrows; and Peter a sword and shield. After evading Maugrim's wolves, the group reaches Aslan's camp, where he is revealed to be a lion. Two wolves ambush Lucy and Susan, but Peter kills Maugrim. Aslan's troops rescue Edmund.  The White Witch journeys to Aslan's camp to claim Edmund, but Aslan secretly offers himself instead. That night, Lucy and Susan see the White Witch kill Aslan and deploy an army to slaughter his troops. Edmund encourages Peter to take command. In the morning, both armies clash in battle. Aslan is resurrected, citing magic beyond the Witch's understanding, and takes Susan and Lucy to the Witch's castle to free the petrified prisoners. Edmund is mortally wounded while saving Peter, but reinforcements arrive and Aslan kills the Witch. Edmund is healed by Lucy's cordial, and the Pevensies are crowned King Peter the Magnificent, Queen Susan the Gentle, King Edmund the Just, and Queen Lucy the Valiant.  Fifteen years later, the Pevensie children, now adults, pursue a white stag. They encounter the lamppost that Lucy first saw when she entered Narnia. They cross back through the wardrobe, becoming children again. Professor Kirke asks why they were in the wardrobe. Peter says he wouldn't believe them, and he responds, "Try me."  In a mid-credit scene, Lucy attempts to use the wardrobe, but Professor Kirke tells her he has also tried, and they will probably return to Narnia when they least expect it.