In Bucharest, U.S. Marine Gunnery Sergeant Alexandra “Ali” Gorski is tasked to protect a convoy carrying the daughter of the ambassador. Armed mercenaries ambush them, and although Ali fights fiercely and effectively, the mercenaries are still able to kill the ambassador, his wife and their daughter. Ali leaves the Marines and returns to New York City.  Her uncle, Pat, tells her of a job in The Carrington Hotel in New York City where he works.  Ali is hired, working alongside another doorman, Borz.  She finds out that her late sister’s husband, Professor Jon Stanton, and his two children, Max and Lily, live there. Jon and Ali had an affair during the marriage, which she fled by joining the Marines. She is invited to their Easter dinner.  Over the Easter holiday, Borz kills Pat with a sledgehammer, revealing that Borz has been disguised as a doorman to search for valuable paintings hidden in the hotel. A group of mercenaries led by Victor Dubois arrive and initiate a lockdown. Dubois, Borz, and his men invade the apartment of Bernard Hersch, who suffers akinetic mutism. Dubois knew Bernard as Erich Dreischler and asks where the paintings are. When Bernard does not speak, Borz stabs him in the hand, finally bringing Bernard around, even though he cannot recall the whereabouts of the paintings. When Bernard’s wife explains that they moved from 10 C after Bernard's stroke seven years earlier, the mercenaries leave for 10C — now occupied by the Stantons — before Borz kills Bernard and his wife.  Dubois and his men arrive at 10C and hold Jon and Lily hostage, while Max, seeing the men already inside, runs away. Dubois eventually discovers the hidden safe containing the paintings and has Martinez use a water cooled drill to bypass the combination code. Jon attempts to distract Dubois by having a glass of wine to allow Lily to use Dubois’ laptop to call for help via Facebook, but Borz catches her and Dubois forces her to delete the message.  After discovering the Hersch couple's corpses and Borz’s betrayal, Ali kills one henchman and runs into Max. Ali and Max activate the fire alarm to summon the fire department but as Ali tries to alert them, two other henchmen catch the two and the firefighters find nothing amiss and leave after Borz explains that it was a false alarm.  After Ali kills another henchman, Max is separated and is recaptured and brought to 10C. Dubois calls Ali on PA system, ordering her to surrender herself. Seeing the water hose is connected to the drill bit, Max surreptitiously sends the Morse code on PA system to message Ali to disable the main valve of the water supply. Leo is killed by the nail bomb set by Ali while attempting to turn the water back on, destroying the main valve as well. Dubois radios her and threatens to kill the family if Ali refuses to restore the water supply. Ali agrees and, with corrupt NYPD officer Olsen (Dubois’ cohort) holding her at gunpoint, connects a hose to the rooftop water tank. The safe is opened, revealing the paintings. After Jon mentions that the art is worth hundreds of millions rather than $5 million Dubois had told them, Borz renegotiates that 50% of the proceeds will go to Dubois while the remaining men, Martinez and Borz, will each receive a share of 25%. Ali kills Olsen and rushes to 10C, where she holds Martinez hostage. Borz wounds Jon and kills Martinez to increase his share to 50%.  As the police arrive at the scene, Borz dresses as a doorman to walk past the police and pins the blame on Ali, who incapacitates the officers and chases Borz. As they walk through a sewer, Borz turns on Dubois and kills him. Ali fights Borz and finally kills him with a grenade. Sometime later, Ali bids farewell to Jon and the children, who are heading to London.