Robert "Bobby" Funke is a less than popular high school sophomore with a dream to get into Northwestern University's summer journalism program. Although Funke claims he is a great writer, he has never finished an article for his school newspaper. Editor-in-chief Clara Diaz assigns Funke to do an article on Paul Moore, the student council president and star of the school's basketball team. Funke is unable to get a story out of Paul and is bullied by Paul's friends.  Principal Kirkpatrick discovers that the upcoming SAT booklets have been stolen from a safe in his office. Kirkpatrick rounds up the "usual suspects" of misfits, including Funke. The group is innocent, but Kirkpatrick warns them to watch their step.  When senior Francesca Facchini solicits Funke's help tracking down the stolen SATs, Funke slowly uncovers a story. His investigation links Paul to the crime, which he writes in an article for the school paper. Kirkpatrick forces Paul to open his locker and the SATs fall out.  Funke becomes one of the most popular kids at school. Clara decides to submit his article to Northwestern, which earns him a scholarship to the summer program. Funke wins the respect of everyone, from Principal Kirkpatrick to Francesca, who asks him to a school dance.  Paul confronts Funke, proclaiming his innocence, stating that he was already accepted to Cornell on a sports scholarship and did not need the SATs. Funke begins to wonder if he is just a pawn in a conspiracy, and he investigates Paul's shady friends, all members of the student council. He discovers their involvement with drug dealing. The council had actually stolen the SATs along with other tests throughout the year, modifying the marks of the best students to make them doubt their test-taking abilities and turn to the council for "study drugs". Paul was not in on the crime, so group ringleader Marlon Piazza had Paul framed to avoid being caught, while Marlon's step-sibling and sex partner, Francesca, led Funke along to keep him from finding out the truth.  Funke confronts the council in the principal's office. Marlon threatens to have Funke thrown out the window and frame it as a suicide, but his threat and confession are heard on the school's intercom system, which Funke had secretly activated. Kirkpatrick rushes into the office, followed by Francesca. Francesca attempts to gain Funke's trust, only to be shut down and left to her punishment.