The film opens at a performance of Jan Lewan's (Black) polka band in Pennsylvania. Near the close of the show, he brings his wife Marla (Slate) onstage. A former beauty queen, Marla models amber jewelry they sell at their souvenir store. After the concert, Jan recounts to a happy concertgoer how he and Marla met, and how he has worked every terrible job imaginable, from dishwasher to janitor, to achieve the American dream.  The clarinetist in his band, Mickey (Schwartzman), visits Jan at his gift shop to tell him he wants to quit the band. Mickey and his bandmates suspect that Jan has gotten in over his head and cites rumors such as a woman in a costume will be a "dancing bear act". Jan admits to all this, convincing Mickey to "see the big picture".  An elderly couple visits Jan and asks about investing in his band. He explains that they are guaranteed a 12% annual return on their investment. The band's misfortune starts to reverse, and Mickey thanks Jan for not having to return to Radio Shack, a job he detested. The state Securities and Exchange Commission office discovers Jan is taking on investors and sends investigator Ron Edwards (Smoove) to meet with him. He informs Jan that because he has not registered properly, it is illegal for him to accept investments. He gives Jan three days to return his investors' money and close down.  With hundreds of thousands of dollars already invested, Jan can't meet the SEC deadline. When Edwards sees no further activity, he closes the case. However, Jan has covertly continued his investments by changing the name of his investment firm, as evidenced when the elderly couple looks to increase their investment and Jan takes their money by drafting up fresh papers.  The film follows Jan as he continues to expand his enterprises. Jan starts a travel company offering European tours. He sells a package that climaxes with a private audience with the Pope. In Rome, he begs Mickey to help him bribe Vatican officials to secure the Papal audience. Realizing he lied to all the tour goers, Mickey threatens to expose Jan, but Jan explains that his philosophy is to simply say his goals out loud until they become true. He encourages Mickey to do the same, and Mickey explains that he has dreamt of creating a stage name for himself. Jan kneels with him in the hotel lobby and dubs him "Mickey Pizzazz".  Marla has been feeling the need to achieve something on her own through competing in another beauty pageant. She is supported by Jan (seeing this as a chance for increased publicity) who bribes the judges in order to crown her Mrs. Pennsylvania. When the pageant has been accused of foul play, Marla refuses to cede her title. The mounting bad press causes many investors to complain to the SEC or close their accounts. The elderly couple who have been his chief investors are among them, which would blow his Ponzi scheme sky high, but Jan dissuades them from leaving by offering them his top rate of 20% annual return.  While touring, a bus plunge kills two people and hospitalizes Jan's son. Jan begs God to spare his son. When Jan is arrested in tandem with his son's recovery, Jan gladly cooperates with Edwards, thinking this is God's requirement for penance.  Jan is sentenced to five years in prison. Marla divorces Jan and he has lost everything. Jan makes friends with some black prisoners who teach him hiphop and in turn gain an appreciation for polka. When Jan is released from prison, he is met by his son and Mickey, both of whom propose reviving the polka band.