The Turtle family visit Franklin's grandmother, as do Aunt Lucy and her goddaughter Samantha (or "Sam"). Despite trying to be to nice to each other, Franklin and Sam find it difficult to get along.  Granny flashes back to when she was just a child - she lived in Turtle Lake, and spent mornings fishing with her father and afternoons picking berries with her mother. She found a secret hiding place and buried her valuables inside a painted tin box in the ground, but she never got the chance to open it again. A few nights after she buried it, a forest fire started. She managed to escape but her house was destroyed, the location of the time capsule was obscured, and her parents died. She went to live with her aunt's family and hasn't been back ever since.  Later, the turtles get a call from Lucy that Granny is sick, and they decided to check on her. Thinking that the box may be their only hope, Franklin, Sam, Lucy, Beaver, Bear, and Snail decide to head to Granny's old ruined home. During the adventure, a flock of butterflies appear and they follow them, where they meet an old wise turtle, who gives an item. The next day, they meet Little Crow, an orphan bird, who shows them the place the box used to be, revealing that someone took it.  Franklin and Sam's personality clashes happen again, until, while climbing a cliff to rescue Snail from two birds who had taken him, Samantha slips, but is saved by Franklin. While resting and waiting, the two turtles apologize to each other, admitting that their personality clashes had gotten the best of them. They soon reach the top, but the chicks refuse to let them take Snail. Little Crow manages to save Snail, but gets into a fight with the chicks. Sam saves her, but they all fall when the mother of the chicks appears and saves them from falling to certain death. Little Crow decides to stay with the bird family, and the others continue their search for the treasure.  They soon arrive at a chasm, where they meet Grizzly and help him out. Grizzly reveals that he had dug up Granny's box, and gives it to them. They thank him and leave for home, with Grizzly giving them his canoe. They return home and give Granny the box, which is revealed to contain her father's fishing hook, a hand-drawn picture of her house and a sealed picture of her as an infant with her parents. She smiles as she finally recovers. Later that evening, Franklin and Sam bid goodbye to each other, and hope to meet each other again someday.