Ruby is a classical ballet dancer who earns a scholarship to the Manhattan Conservatory of the Arts. She meets an edgy, British, moody young violinist named Johnnie who performs in the New York City Subway. While watching him play, two groups of hip hop dancers start a dance off, and Ruby gets pushed and she falls down. Johnnie gets distracted while helping her, and his violin and the rent money he earned busking are stolen. He gets very upset, stating the violin was given to him by his grandfather, who he seemed to have been close with, since he had a tattoo of his grandfather's death date on his bicep. Later, she tries to help him with a loaner violin from the Conservatory, but he tells her he doesn't want charity and seems to be accusing her of being a rich, entitled snob because she attends the Conservatory, not knowing she's on scholarship. She learns he is illegally living in the USA, which is why he didn't report the theft to the police or ask them for help to retrieve his violin. She also learns that there is a competition where a dancer performs with a string musician, and the winner gets a scholarship, which could qualify Johnnie for a student visa, and earn him 25 grand.  Ruby's scholarship is on the line because she is failing a mandatory contemporary dance class so she and Johnnie must find a way to save Ruby’s scholarship and keep Johnnie from being deported. Ruby's friend and roommate Jasmine "Jazzy" is also at risk of facing expulsion because she is repeatedly late for her classes because of partying late with her boyfriend. The two have a struggle with friendship over Jazzy's situation, and Jazzy ends up calling Ruby "you bitch!" Jazzy realizes her mistake, and starts to improve her dancing and habits. Meanwhile, Johnnie had paid an immigration attorney to help him get a green card but the attorney turns out to be a fraud. The situation is made more complicated by the rivalry of some other students (April and Kyle) entering the competition, one of which has a particular jealousy of Johnnie's talent, Kyle Endeca. Meanwhile, Johnnie makes up with Ruby after going into a violin competition at a gala with Kyle earlier, and the two kiss, starting a relationship. With the help of a hip hop dance crew living a floor beneath Johnnie, they must find a common ground while preparing for a competition that could change their lives forever.   Right before the competition, Johnnie is taken in by the police, and he can be forgiven for illegally living in America if he helps them find out the fraud attorney. Ruby and the hip hop group are about to start the competition without Johnnie since he hasn't shown up, but he finally does show up. The group performs their dance and music. The judges have mixed feelings about the non-classical dance, and when the group finishes, no one claps. Finally, the audience erupts into clapping and whooping. The judges announce Ruby and Johnnie's group the winner, and everyone is happy, except for the rival team.