Danny is a young Polish-American living in New York City, who is asked by his recently jailed brother, Darren, to deliver a briefcase. He is not told about the briefcase’s contents and is given vague instructions for its delivery. Ellie is being paid by Danny to be his getaway driver. She needs the money to have a fresh start at life.   At a subway stop, Danny leaves the briefcase with the wrong person, and takes someone else's bag. As his subway car leaves the stop, he realizes his mistake and gets off at the next stop. After returning to the first stop, he sees that the bag is gone. Danny leaves the platform in a panic and sees Ellie. Initially, Ellie tries to avoid Danny, but she realises that no drop means neither of them will get paid. They decide to work together to rectify the situation. Ellie calls her contact, demanding she gets equal pay and organizing delivery for that night.  Danny and Ellie take a train to an address in the suburbs they found on a prescription bottle. As they travel there, Danny tries to start a conversation. She joins in and they talk about their respective jobs. Arriving at the address, someone lets them in. They enter, looking around for the woman from the subway platform. They go up the stairs and enter a bedroom. Through a window, they see the SUV of a man who had threatened to call the police earlier. In a panic, they jump out of the window.  Deciding to go back the next day, Danny and Ellie wander around the nearby town. They go to a carnival, and Ellie starts to ask Danny questions. They spend the night in a pool shed, cuddling for warmth. In the morning, when the family has left, Danny and Ellie sneak back into the house. Danny sees the girl from the platform in a photograph, and finds her name (Vinessa), email, and work address from a computer on a table. They find some food and clothes, and leave the house using bikes they found in the garage.  Back in the city, Danny and Ellie see Vinessa go to her work, so he makes a call to Darren. Darren appears along with his associates, and talks Vinessa into leaving her workplace with the briefcase. Danny intercepts her and switches their cases back. He calls Darren again, who tries to get him to take the case and run. Danny instead gives it to Ellie, who is picked up and taken to a luxurious home. The home's owner is happy to take the briefcase, as it contains a piece of art she had hidden from her ex-husband. For handing over the briefcase, Ellie is given $3,000, which she gives a cut of to Danny.  Ellie heads to the Port Authority to catch a bus to Philadelphia. After a few minutes of reflecting, Danny grabs some things and chases after her. Catching up to her, Ellie tells him that she is going to Providence. Danny asks if he can come with her.