Rashad Swann is a teen living in Mechanicsville, Atlanta, Georgia with his Uncle George, and his little brother, Ant. He and his brother were raised by George since their parents died in a car accident, and they work with him as part of his custodial company. When not working or finishing his last semester of high school, Rashad spends most of his time with his friends.  Rashad is a talented artist but does not see much of a future in that field as he has become accustomed to working the family business, cleaning offices and building spaces. Benjamin “Esquire” Gordon, Rashad's best friend, goes to Mount Paran Academy, a private school on the opposite side of town from where they live, and has dreams of attending Brinton University, an Ivy League college after senior year. However, he finds out that he will need a letter of recommendation from someone of high stature to better his chances of acceptance at said school.  Unlike Esquire, Rashad attends Mechanicsville High School, on the opposite side of the city. Along with his other two friends, one being Teddy, who is 21 years old and has yet to graduate, and the other being Brooklyn, who's from New York, and always has to constantly remind the group of where he's from. Rashad's younger brother Ant, also attends, Rashad tries his best to keep the promise he made to his parents which was to keep his little brother on the right path, but he usually fails because of Ant's hard-headed nature. Rashad and his friends are a month away from graduating high school and they're all at the same point in their lives, pondering on what's the next step.  While hanging with his friends at a Waffle House, Rashad encounters the mysterious New New along with her friends Veda & Star, twins who have a knack for stealing clothes from the mall. Rashad inquires about what school New New attends since she's only around when the group is hanging out. Rashad and his friends are also a skate crew called “The Ones” at Cascade, a skating rink which they attend every Sunday Night, they're on a quest to win Skate Wars, a skating competition that could secure them bragging rights for the remainder of the Summer. As Brooklyn quits another job, the group goes to the local community swimming pool, and are informed by New New that Big Booty Judy is throwing a party to celebrate their upcoming graduation from High School. While at the pool Ant encounters Marcus’ cousin Austin, who quit school to sell drugs for his cousin, he then introduces Ant to Marcus.  At the graduation party, Rashad and New New make their moves on each other, and after a misstep with Rashad's ex Tonya, they state their attractions toward one another. As Veda & Star get caught by their mother Gayle for stealing clothes at the mall, New New would have to leave the party prematurely as they all come together, but Rashad offers to give her a ride home. As he gives her a ride home in his Chevrolet El Camino they kiss each other. Esquire has since developed a disliking for Rashad's new love interest, considering her and the twins bad company.  Ant becomes more and more involved with Marcus and begins to sell for him. Rashad tries to talk sense into Ant after he skips his history class by showing him the money he's been saving up ever since their parents passing, so Ant can get out of Mechanicsville and have a shot at attending college when he graduates High School. At school, Ant meets up with Jay who inquires about the drugs that Ant is selling, but the youth lies and says he doesn't sell. Ant then informs his friends that he knows Jay is a narc. As Ant is having sex with Tondie in the backseat of a car, he sees Austin getting beat up by Marcus as he was short on some drug money.  At work one day, Esquire meets John Garnett, a millionaire. During a game of golf, the two get to know each other and become friends, with Esquire seeing an opportunity to obtain the letter of recommendation that he so desperately needs. When Esquire goes to Garnett's house to have dinner and receive the letter, he meets his daughter Erin, who turns out to be New-New. Esquire wants to tell Rashad about Erin but is conflicted when Erin says that she will reveal to her father where Esquire is really from, as he lied to Garnett about it while they were playing golf.  Ant becomes reckless and eventually ends up selling drugs to Jay, who tips off the police. Ant is then arrested after the police raid his locker. Marcus bails him out of jail and tells him he will have to put in some overtime to recoup the money and drugs the police took. Ant and Rashad have a fight after the former's arrest and are broken up by Uncle George, who then ends up arguing with Rashad after suggesting that maybe him selling drugs might not be a bad thing.    During what seems to be a normal Sunday night at the skating rink, Erin's lies suddenly catch up with her as her father shows up at Cascade and takes her back home. The next day she drives to Rashad's house to try to explain herself and apologize but Rashad doesn't want to hear anything she has to say, effectively breaking up with her. Feeling betrayed, he then alienates his friends after realizing that Esquire knew about Erin after realizing she was driving the same car sitting in the driveway of John Garnett's house. Esquire, feeling guilty about the way he obtained the letter, decides to return it to Garnett, and reveals the truth about himself much to the chagrin of Garnett. On the Last Sunday Night, Esquire attempts to make peace with Rashad and he, along with the rest of their friends, pleads with him to attend Skate Wars.  Rashad initially refuses the offer, but changes his mind after speaking to Uncle George. Before he can attend he gets a call from Marcus who is looking for Ant, as he failed to check in after he was robbed of the money he was supposed to use to pay off his debt after his arrest. Marcus corners Ant and is about to shoot him but Rashad tracks the two down and after a confrontation Ant is shot in the neck. At the hospital, Rashad and Ant reconnect. Rashad and his friends make peace as well, each going on to succeed in their endeavors.  Teddy finally graduated from High School and opened up his own gold teeth shop called “Gangsta Grillz.” Brooklyn was finally able to secure a long-term job. After a change of heart from John Garnett, Esquire received a “mysterious” Letter of Recommendation to attend Brinton University, the Ivy League school of his dreams. Veda & Star still remained at the skating rink causing trouble every Sunday night. Uncle George let go of the dating sites, went to church, and found a girlfriend. New New was finally able to convince her parents to let her attend Spelman College with Rashad glad she'd still be close to him. After his ordeal with Marcus, Ant finally stopped trying to become a drug dealer and got himself together in school, becoming an honors student. Rashad was able to take his artistic talents and draw for the comics section of the newspaper, realizing his father's prediction of when he'd finally put his skates down.