Alice "Ali" Marilyn Rose is a young waitress from Iowa who has dreams of becoming a professional dancer ever since losing her mother in her childhood. After her selfish boss refuses to pay her salary, she takes what he owes her from the register and moves to LA, where she attends many auditions with little success.   One night, Ali comes across a burlesque club where its owner Tess Scali and an entourage of dancers perform an opening number. She also meets songwriter-bartender Jack Miller at the club's bar. He refers Ali to Tess for an audition, but she tells her to return another time and her assistant Sean ushers her out. Upon seeing the waitress shortage, Ali picks up a tray and begins serving. As a result, she manages to get a job as a waitress at the club.  When Georgia, one of the leading dancers, becomes pregnant, auditions are held in search of a replacement to fill her role. Ali performs a difficult dance routine and eventually persuades Tess to hire her. This infuriates Nikki, a lead performer struggling with alcoholism.  Ali replaces Nikki one night to host a performance after the latter is too intoxicated to perform. In a fit of rage, Nikki tries to sabotage the performance by turning off the music that the dancers usually lip sync to until Ali impresses everyone with her singing skills. Her performance is an instant success to which Tess casts her in an upcoming show. Despite the club's growing popularity, Tess struggles with a bank loan having a lien on her ownership rights of the building.  One night after the club closes, Tess grows increasingly worried about her finances before a drunken Nikki shows up, accusing Tess of rejecting their long friendship. In defense of Ali, Tess questions Nikki's gratitude for the help she has received during her binges. In retaliation, the furious dancer quits after she reveals to have slept with Tess' ex-husband Vince. Tess leaves, angrily smashing the passenger-side window on Nikki's convertible.   Meanwhile, Ali and Jack become romantically attracted. However, he is already engaged to Natalie, an actress working in NYC. Sean encourages Jack to end the engagement, as Ali is a better person than his shallow fiancée. Marcus, a wealthy clubgoer, becomes infatuated with Ali, who begins spending time with him, making Jack jealous.   At Georgia's wedding, Jack appears to call off his engagement and becomes drunk. That night, he and Ali sleep together, beginning an affair. In the morning, Natalie unexpectedly returns from New York and finds them in bed together. Natalie angrily insists she and Jack never broke up though the latter denies this yet asks Ali to leave. Heartbroken and betrayed, Ali runs to Sean for support and learns that Sean is gay. Marcus calls Ali, and Sean prompts her to go out with him.  Ali learns that Marcus is interested in the "air rights" above the club; he hopes to build a skyscraper on the property. Distraught, she abruptly leaves. She later tells Tess about his plan, so they inform the owner of new million-dollar condos being sold across the street. Fearing the obstruction of his prospective purchasers' view, he buys the air rights to the club's property from Tess. She then uses the money to buy out Vince's share, pay off the bank, and redecorate the club in her own vision. Later, a sobered Nikki admits that she lied about sleeping with Vince out of anger, and Tess rehires her.  Ali rekindles her relationship with Jack after he tells her that he broke up with Natalie because she cared more about her job than about their relationship. Having earned Nikki's respect, Ali performs "Show Me How You Burlesque", a song written by Jack, with all of the dancers on stage, delighting the crowd.