Millionaire Charles Deaver (Richard Fitzpatrick), who has been heavily disfigured by an automobile accident, seeks to save his life by investing in the work of Dr. Nathaniel Leech (James Binkley). Leech is a scientist developing a serum to regenerate dead cells, which he hopes to use to save his wife Miranda, who is dying of leukemia. When he presents the serum to Deaver, Leech explains that as the serum works, the patient will develop a ravenous hunger that must be treated with a special protein formula to avoid side effects. Deaver has his henchmen, including his top deputy Krendal (Wendy Anderson), brutally beat Leech; after Krendal shoots the doctor several times, she injects Leech with the serum and locks him in a tunnel system overnight, to see if the serum indeed works and regenerates him. As Krendal does not administer the accompanying protein, Leech's hunger quickly drives him to eat a rat and later a dog. He begins to mutate into a hybrid creature shortly thereafter.  A group of salvage workers led by Vince Stoker (Tom Sizemore) arrive at an abandoned hospital on the same property, hoping to find old equipment they can sell for quick cash. Stoker's niece, Sam (Amber Cull), is with the team for the first time. As they navigate the hospital, they enter the tunnels to reach the storage areas. Having now fully mutated into a giant, rat-like monster, Leech begins stalking the workers, killing Callum (Joe Dinicol) in front of Sam, who rushes to warn Vince and Otis (Martin Roach).  Meanwhile, Deaver sends Krendal and Wilkes (Simon Northwood) back into the tunnels to retrieve Leech, unaware that they are working for another employer. The duo lock all but one exit from the tunnels, sealing Stoker's team inside. They encounter Leech and shoot him, but he regenerates and kills Wilkes.  Krendal runs into Stoker's team and is initially hostile to them, but they decide to work together after fleeing from Leech. She confesses that she is a double agent working to acquire Leech's serum for the U.S. government to use in creating supersoldiers. Meanwhile, Leech finds Deaver in his limousine and exacts revenge by decapitating him.  To prevent Leech from escaping into the outside world, Vince and Krendal lure him back into the tunnels while Otis and Sam retrieve construction equipment to fight him. Krendal injures her leg while setting explosives, and sacrifices herself so Vince can carry out the rest of the plan. Vince, Sam and Otis kill Leech by cutting into his arms, chest and head with their power tools, but the timers on the explosives run out before they can leave, killing Otis while Vince and Sam barely survive.  Vince wakes up in a military hospital a week later, where he learns he and Sam were contaminated by Leech's serum via his blood as they killed him. The doctor connects Vince to an intravenous drip of the protein formula before leaving the room, while Vince cries out from the pain of his overwhelming hunger as the serum's effects take hold of him.