Sarah Pierce lives with her husband Richard and daughter Lucy in suburban Boston. Their marriage falls apart when she discovers his addiction to Internet pornography. One day, she meets Brad Adamson, a married law student who brings his 4-year-old son, Aaron, to the park. Brad and Sarah become friendly and, on a dare, kiss in the park, but resolve not to act on their mutual attraction.  One day, several parents panic when they see recently paroled sex offender Ronnie J. McGorvey swimming in the pool with the children. After he is escorted away by the police, Sarah and Brad take Lucy and Aaron back to her house and put the kids to bed. While Sarah is drying towels in her basement, Brad comes down and they have sex.  Ronnie lives with his mother, May, who believes that Ronnie's pedophilia would be cured if he met a woman his own age. Ronnie reluctantly agrees to go on a date May has arranged for him with a woman named Sheila, which ends badly when he masturbates next to her in her car by a children's playground.  When Brad skips taking the bar exam again, his wife Kathy grows suspicious and tells him to invite Sarah, Richard, and Lucy over for dinner. The intimacy evident between Brad and Sarah confirms her suspicions, and Kathy arranges for her mother to come for an extended visit. When Brad's football team plays its final game, Sarah attends and cheers as Brad scores the winning touchdown. Afterwards, they make out on the field, with Brad convincing her to run away with him.  Brad's friend Larry Hedges, a former police officer who went on disability after accidentally killing a little boy, spends much of his time harassing Ronnie. One night, he enters Ronnie's neighborhood with a megaphone. May comes out to confront him, suffering a heart attack in the process when Larry pushes her to the ground, causing him to be arrested. May is taken to a hospital, where she dies. When Ronnie returns home from the hospital, he finds a letter written by May saying: "Please be a good boy." Distraught, Ronnie destroys much of his mother's collection of Hummel figurines before grabbing a knife.  That same night, Sarah and Brad agree to meet in the park. As he heads to the park, he is distracted by skateboarding teenagers. Attempting to try a jump himself, he knocks himself out. When he regains consciousness, he asks the paramedics to call his wife to meet him at the hospital.  When Sarah takes Lucy to the park, she sees Ronnie stagger onto one of the swings, revealing to her that his mother died. When Lucy disappears, Sarah panics and rushes to find her, forgetting about Brad. She finds her staring at a street lamp and places her back into her car. Larry arrives to apologize to Ronnie about May, but when he discovers that Ronnie has castrated himself and is bleeding to death, he races him to the hospital, the same time as Kathy meets Brad there.