Allyson Field (Sarah Drew) writes an unhappy blog post about her constant stress and feelings of inadequacy. Though happily married with three children, Allyson is beset with anxiety and finds comfort in her best friend Izzy (Andrea Logan White) and mentor Sondra (Patricia Heaton).  Allyson's husband Sean (Sean Astin) recommends a night out for his overstressed wife, so she, Izzy, and Sondra plan an evening at a fancy Chinese restaurant. But Sean's half-sister Bridget (Abbie Cobb) wants Allyson to look after her baby, Phoenix, as she starts a new job the evening Allyson plans to go out with Izzy and Sondra. Sean backs up Allyson's reluctant refusal, and Bridget storms out, determined to prove she doesn't need their help. When Allyson and her friends arrive at the restaurant, they are told that their reservation has been lost. Allyson has a meltdown, stows away their cellphones in her van, and leads them across the street to go bowling, swapping their high heels for bowling shoes.  The evening degenerates with further misunderstandings and incidents. The "babysitters" - Sean, his video-gaming best friend Kevin (Kevin Downes), and Izzy's husband Marco (Robert Amaya) - take the kids to a video arcade, resulting in Sean and his son going to the emergency room. Kevin and Marco swap out a car for Allyson's van, not realizing that the women have no means of knowing about the switch. The ladies rush out of the bowling alley when Bridget, whose new job is at the bowling alley, realizes that Phoenix was not being watched by her ex like she had thought. They conclude the van was stolen and take a taxi on a wild goose chase looking for Phoenix, going to places like a tattoo parlor and a dank alley. On the way they meet a motorcyclist named 'Bones' (Trace Adkins) who goes with them and the good-humored taxi driver on their hunt. On the way they find Allyson's minivan and pursue it. Cops pull over the whole crew and all four ladies end up in a jail cell, Sondra recovering from being tasered by a cop. Allyson conveys her frustration with herself as a mom to Bones, who shares his simple philosophy with her. Everyone is reunited and absolved of charges. Allyson writes a blog post stating that her life may be stressful and crazy, but it is also beautiful.