Travis Shaw (Benjamin Walker) is a veterinarian, living in the city of Wilmington, NC, who falls in love on his first meeting with Gabby Holland (Teresa Palmer), who has moved into the house next door.  Their initial meeting, however, is rather rocky as Travis is hosting a noisy backyard picnic, complete with loud music while Gabby is trying to study next door.  Gabby is a medical student who is in a relationship with a fellow doctor, Ryan McCarthy (Tom Welling). Travis has an on again, off again relationship with a girl named Monica.  With Ryan out of state overseeing a new hospital opening, Gabby and Travis spend more time together, starting a relationship.  Ryan returns, and is keen to resume his relationship with Gabby. Unsure of her feelings, Gabby tells Travis that their relationship wasn't necessarily serious, so she says yes to Ryan's marriage proposal. Monica (Alexandra Daddario) breaks up with Travis, telling him that she knows about him and Gabby and that he should fight for her because they love each other. Travis goes to the hospital, only to find out she left after breaking off her engagement with Ryan. Ryan punches him for the affair. Travis then goes to Gabby's family home to propose. After convincing her of his love, she says yes. They marry and over the course of the next few years they have two children and become a happy family.  One evening, after a dinner to which Travis is late due to a work emergency, Gabby drives back home but is involved in an accident with another car. She survives but is now in a coma, which seems permanent. Travis, wracked with guilt, has to decide whether to take her off life support.  After a storm nearly destroys their house, Travis finds the wind chimes that Gabby had on her porch. He goes to his island and builds a gazebo, hanging them there. The shell chime starts to ring in the wind and Travis runs to the hospital where Gabby has woken up from her coma. When he walks in she says "you're late." He takes her home where she is welcomed by the family and Travis' sister's newborn child.  To make up for missing their dinner date Travis and Gabby have one in the front yard, where she tells him she heard everything he said whilst in the coma. Stating that he was "breathing for her." The movie finishes with Travis and Gabby with their children and dogs sitting in the gazebo 'Gabby's Point', looking out onto the shore and up at the stars.