Three intersecting stories are told centered on the Fond du Lac Indian Reservation and the adjacent town of Cloquet in the Arrowhead Region of northeastern Minnesota. The answers to the outstanding questions in these stories are all hidden in the secrets from a generation ago at the now abandoned Catholic boarding school on the reservation.  In Story One, Ojibwe Native Americans Rain Many Lightnings O'Rourke (Georgina Lightning) and Johnny Goodfeather (Adam Beach), a teacher and a police officer have been living together for ten years, off the reservation despite Johnny's job solely out of circumstance. They have not felt ready to get married until now, Johnny asking her which coincides with his announcement that he has been accepted into the FBI training program in Washington, DC. Rain isn't sure if she is prepared to move, since her mother, Irene, has long been institutionalized in a local psychiatric institution diagnosed as schizophrenic, she inching closer to being in a vegetative state. Under this circumstance, Rain was raised by her Aunt Barbara ("Auntie Apple"), a devout Catholic who has long assimilated into western society and who turns to local priest Father Bartoli for any guidance. One day, after Rain swerves to avoid some children in the road and winds up in a car accident, Johnny swears there were none. What Rain eventually confides to Johnny is that she of late has been seeing visions of things she doesn't understand, she fearing that she may be going the way of her mother. She is later transferred to a psychiatric institution; when Johnny challenges Auntie Apple and tries to force his way to her, his hotheadedness gets him arrested. Rain eventually finds out the children she's been seeing running around the community are not living children, but the spirits of dead children. Through visions and investigations she discovers these unquiet dead are the little girls and boys who were murdered at the Indian boarding school that used to kidnap, institutionalize, and abuse children in the community. She realizes that the spirits of the children are speaking to her so the truth can come to light and that, maybe, the community can finally find healing.  In Story Two, Luke Patterson (Bradley Cooper), a government geologist, has come to the area to investigate a reported earthquake - if it be the case, a rare earthquake - on the reservation. Beyond Johnny helping him get a city hall permit to investigate on the reservation, Luke befriends Johnny and his family during his extended stay in the area and begins to learn more about the history behind the reservation and the local boarding school from Johnny's father Pete.  In Story Three, Steve Klamath is running for mayor against the long time incumbent, Paul Gunderson, who has always been pro-development on the reservation. As the campaign progresses, Steve, who wants to fight for indigenous rights from the inside of the establishment, seems to be waging a losing battle both within the Native population as they historically stay home on voting day, and with the non-Native population who largely viewing him with contempt for his policies. Local radio talk show host Richard Two Rivers (Wes Studi), who is seen as the voice of the reservation, outwardly gives Steve's campaign airtime if only because it is Steve's side who contacts the radio station about the campaign, although his background shows Richard may not be who he is as perceived by the public.