A woman in a van seems to awaken from a nightmare about a mine, where a voice screams for “Michael,” and fingers scrabble under a door.  The van is at a gas station, where a nearby newspaper announces “couple found murdered in RV.” The van belongs to a group of seven friends – Michael, Lyla, TJ, Claire, Lex, Rose, and Guy – who are traveling to a cabin in the woods for a vacation with their friends Matt and Sarah. Michael, who is driving, gets lost in the dark and swerves to avoid a waving figure in the road. The van crashes, which forces them to travel on foot. They arrive at a well-furnished cabin where Rose finds a written note telling "TJ, Lex, Claire" to wait there for them, so they assume that this is the house.  The group enjoys themselves in the comfortable cabin, with the exception of Michael, who sleeps early and has nightmares of murdering their friends Matt and Sarah. That night, the cabin’s apparent owners, having gotten lost, are killed in their camper. The next morning, TJ discovers an abandoned mine nearby and takes the group inside to explore. TJ and Guy, as a joke, briefly lock Michael inside an enclosed cell, which causes him to panic. Rose, who is a psychic, is uneasy about the mine and at one point feels someone grab her leg, though it cannot be one of her friends.  Michael and his girlfriend Lyla return to the van to collect Michael's anti-psychotic medication, used to treat his schizophrenia, and confirm that the van is unusable. They find the door open and blood on the van's fender, and assume that they hit an animal the previous night. Upon returning to the house, the group collectively agrees to stay one more day to wait for the owners of the house. Over the day, Rose has fits and visions of her friends in various stages of death and injury, while Michael dreams of the mine.  While exploring the mine again, TJ and Lex discover three dead bodies that appear to be themselves and Guy. They inform the others, and the group reluctantly agrees that something supernatural is occurring. TJ and Lex return to the mine in search of answers and find a traumatized Claire locked inside a cell; she claims that it is Michael's doing. TJ and Lex refuse to save her, knowing that "their" Claire is still in the house, a decision that Claire later supports. Despite Lyla's protests, the others debate whether Michael needs to be locked up overnight for their protection.  Unnerved by his passive acceptance of his fate, they put him inside one of the mine's cells.  Michael escapes from the cell, which leads to a chase inside the mines, during which Michael causes TJ's and Lex's deaths and locks Claire up inside a cell, where she meets the alternate version of herself. Inside the house, Rose dies, either from poison or shock. Guy and Lyla agree to flee, leaving behind in the house a written note for "TJ, Lex, Claire" to wait there for them. Upon reaching the main road, Guy tries to wave down an oncoming van, causing it to swerve and hit Lyla. Guy recognizes the occupants of the van as themselves from the night before and realizes that they are inside a causality loop. He promises the seriously injured Lyla that he will break the cycle.  Guy rushes back to the house to warn the others but is stopped by Michael, who kills him, as well as Matt and Sarah, whose RV he stumbles across. Michael warns his past self that his friends will try to kill him, and that when they lock him inside a cell for the second time, he must defend himself. Michael gives his past self the key to the cell and, later, forces his past self to burn his anti-psychotic medication.  The cycle restarts as the group's van arrives at the gas station at the beginning of the film. However this time Lyla from the previous cycle is still alive, and she hobbles towards her counterpart surprising her.