Agnes is a middle-class suburban homemaker and mother of two grown sons, Ziggy and Gabe, who seems stuck with her husband Louie in a monotonous routine. She serves her family devotedly and without argument. After baking her own cake, and serving and cleaning up after her own birthday party, she finds herself drawn to a 1000 piece jigsaw puzzle among all the gifts she received. She likes it so much she travels to New York City to visit a shop where she can find more complex puzzles.  At the shop Agnes notices an advertisement which leads her to Robert, a former puzzle tournament champion who is looking for a new partner to compete in a championship tournament the following month. Robert is a wealthy and reclusive inventor whose wife (who was also his puzzle partner) has recently left him. Agnes is intrigued by their differences whereas Robert is surprised by Agnes’ unorthodox approach for solving puzzles and considers her as a Godsend. Robert asks her to meet him twice a week in order to prepare for the national tournament.  Agnes tells her family she needs to help an aunt who has broken her leg, lying every day while trying to help her eldest son discern what kind of life he really wants. She is frustrated by her husband's resistance and shocks her family as she begins to assert herself, declaring that she is going to the tournament. She keeps her relationship with Robert secret as she falls in love with him.  On the last day of practice, Agnes and Robert end up in bed together. As a result, she is late returning home and, on her arrival, Louie finally confronts her asking whether she's having an affair. Agnes confesses she had sex with her puzzle partner (Robert). The next day, the day of the tournament, Ziggy cooks breakfast for her. Agnes and Robert win the national tournament. Agnes breaks the news of her success to her sons but doesn't tell them she has to leave for Brussels soon to compete in the World Jigsaw Puzzle Tournament.  Agnes, along with both her sons and Nicki, goes to the family's old vacation home, which Louie has agreed to sell so the boys can pursue their dreams. There, Agnes calls Robert. Robert reminds her of the flight for Brussels they have to catch. Agnes informs Robert that she is not coming to the international championship. Instead, she boards a train to Montreal, going her own way.