In Paris 1964, famed sculptor Alberto Giacometti bumps into his old friend James Lord, an American critic, and asks him to be a model for his latest portrait in his studio for a couple of days. Flattered by the request, Lord complies and is told that only two days are needed to do the portrait. Giacometti lives with his wife Annette and also with his brother Diego at his studio which he also uses as a home. Giacometti also has a favorite muse whom he uses as a model and part time concubine who is the source of some tension in his home.  When the two days pass, Giacometti requests that the sittings with Lord continue for another week. Lord is busy and needs to return to his work back home, though the chance to have his portrait done by Giacometti entices him to stay. He delays his departure accordingly and puts off his writing assignments. Giacometti's progress on the portrait appears to move in starts and stops. Often he is in the habit of simply blanking out the face to start over again. Lord keeps making photos of the progress, but the progress often is stifled when Giacometti completely rethinks his approach and restarts the portrait from scratch.  Giacometti's relationship with his wife oscillates between genuinely caring for her while requiring that he also have the freedoms implied by having an open marriage. Annette is clearly disturbed by these vacillations in his affections and considers him to be niggardly in the affection which he shows her over the years. At one point she confronts him about being extravagant with his money when it comes to his models and courtesans, while at the same time being stingy about even buying her a coat. Annette reminds him that he has money now that he is a successful artist and insists on getting some attention. Giacometti goes into a rage and reminds her that he does have money and begins casually flinging stacks of bills at her for her new coat. The effect is counterproductive and his wife is still displeased with his keeping courtesans around his studio and in his home.  The progress on the portrait continues very slowly as one week passes into a second week and a third week. Giacometti decides that he will now purchase a convertible for his model courtesan as she has become his primary muse for his artistry. He and Lord and the courtesan go out for a night on the town once her convertible arrives and when they get home, Giacometti finds that his studio has been ransacked. He appears to know what has happened and tells Lord that he must go to sort this out the next day.  In the morning, Giacometti takes Lord with him to visit a local bar where he is to meet up with the male manager who is minding the affairs of Giacometti's favorite courtesan. Giacometti gladly pays him the "fees" which he requires for the services of the courtesan, and he pays for her services in advance. Both Giacometti and the manager are pleased with the arrangement and apparently Giacometti and his premises are to be left intact without further disruption in the coming months ahead. Lord is becoming concerned for the long delays with the portrait and tries to recruit Giacometti's brother to assist him in getting his brother to work a little faster, though his brother completely refuses to do anything like this knowing his brother's prickly temperament. As the portrait painting enter its final stages, Lord eventually departs for his office abroad and reflects on what to him was a first hand witnessed account of the artistic process of Giacometti's genius of artistry at work.