Matias takes home a laptop left at a cyber café. While Skyping with his friends Damon, A.J., Lexx, Serena, and Nari, he receives messages from "Erica," who is its owner, Norah C. IV. demanding the laptop back. Matias decides to return it before receiving messages from "Charon68". A.J. realizes the laptop is connected to the dark web. When Charon68 mentions trepanation, Matias stops responding.  Matias finds snuff films on the laptop and traces an address in one to the home of missing 17-year-old Erica Dunne. Matias receives a video call from his deaf girlfriend Amaya, but it is Norah, demanding the laptop and threatening to kill Amaya if the police are contacted. When Nari seeks help, Matias claims it is an alternate reality game he is developing, though Nari remains suspicious. Matias convinces Amaya to visit him; Norah follows her. Matias removes cryptocurrency from Norah's account, promising to return the money and laptop in exchange for Amaya and Erica's safety.  Matias directs Amaya and Norah to the subway - once their signal is lost, he tells his friends the truth. More Charon accounts join the chat, posting a video of Lexx being thrown off a roof and a deepfake of A.J. planning to attack a shopping mall. As police storm A.J.'s house, the Charons play a gun-loading sound effect from his computer, and the police fatally shoot him. They ask Serena to save either her terminally ill mother or Nari; when she refuses, all three are killed. Matias meets Amaya, leaving the laptop open so Damon can copy its files. Damon tells the Charons that everything has been recorded. The Charons create a deepfake of Matias kidnapping Erica and bringing an unconscious Erica to Matias' apartment. Damon realizes the Charons intended for Matias to find the laptop so they could frame the group for their crimes. A Charon hangs Damon by his closet door while another writes a false confession and suicide note. Amaya calls Matias, who realizes the Charons hacked his messages to lead her astray. He helplessly watches as she is lured into a warehouse and abducted.  The Charons vote to determine Matias' fate, ultimately fatally hitting him with a van. Erica wakes up and approaches the computer, begging for help before discovering a hole in her skull. The Charons gather in front of the cameras and celebrate while another watches from a camera.  Alternate endings There are four known alternate endings.  In the first, Matias goes to meet Amaya at the park, where a Charon knocks him out with a shovel and buries him alive. When he video calls Amaya, the Charons hack his phone and distort his mouth so she can't read his lips. When he texts her, they change all his messages to “I wish I could sign better”. Frustrated, Amaya leaves Matias to die.  In the second, Matias is lured into the warehouse and finds Amaya's bag, realizing the Circle has kidnapped her. They leave him with a gun and watch as he cries, betting on whether he will kill himself.  In the third, Matias meets Amaya, but Charons grab them both. The group votes on whether to let them live. Matias says he'll return their money once Erica is released. The Circle votes to spare them and film as they embrace. Meanwhile, Erica crawls out of Matias' closet, approaching the laptop and crying for help. She discovers a hole in her skull and screams in horror.  In the fourth, Amaya is lured into the warehouse by the Charons. Matias arrives at the park but realizes the Charons have led her astray and watches helplessly as she dies. The group votes on whether to let him live, ultimately deciding not to and fatally running him over with a van.