12-year-old Massie Block is the leader of the Pretty Committee, a clique of popular, wealthy students at her upstate New York all-girls private school, Octavian County Day. Much to Massie's chagrin, the Block family begins hosting the Lyons family, old friends of Massie's father who have recently moved from Florida and have a daughter Massie's age, Claire. Massie is immediately dismayed by Claire’s off-brand clothes and social awkwardness, and orders the other members of her clique - Alicia Rivera, Dylan Marvil, and Kristen Gregory - to join her in bullying and excluding Claire.  While horseback riding, Massie meets a boy named Chris Abeley and is instantly smitten with him, later becoming jealous when she sees him talking to Claire. Meanwhile, Claire befriends Chris' eccentric younger sister Layne and eventually makes plans with her, which she abandons to attend the Pretty Committee's weekend sleepover after being invited to by Massie's mother. She leaves early due to the other girls antagonizing her, and makes amends with Layne the next morning.  One night, Claire decides to confront Massie, but the latter is gone. Seeking revenge, Claire logs onto Massie's IM account and sends disparaging messages to Dylan, Alicia, and Kristen. The other three girls angrily confront Massie the next day and invite Claire to take her place in their clique. Once they realize the truth, they reconcile and continue conspiring against Claire. The girls tell Massie about an upcoming charity auction taking place on Chris' birthday, suggesting that she jump out of a pop out cake and loudly profess her feelings for him, to which Massie happily agrees.  On a field trip to New York City, the Pretty Committee tries to sell a makeup line created by Kristen for a school project, but their recipe contains peanut oil, which triggers allergic reactions in their classmates. Amidst the panic, Massie anonymously texts Claire, suggesting she use Layne's oatmeal snack to reduce the swelling.  At the charity auction, Claire reaches out to the other members of the clique, who all accept her apology and commend her on her efforts to stand up to Massie, revealing that they all secretly harbor disdain for Massie's cruel and controlling nature as well. Claire then learns that Chris has a girlfriend and prevents Massie from jumping out of the cake to save her from embarrassment. After the auction, Massie thanks Claire and admits that she had been bullying her because she saw her as a threat. As Massie types on her computer that night, she decides that Claire is now "in" the Pretty Committee.