Taking place sometime after the events of the first film, Ted marries his girlfriend, Tami-Lynn, six months after John Bennett and Lori Collins divorced. One year later, following a heated argument between Ted and Tami-Lynn, Ted's other co-worker, Joy, suggests they have a baby. As Ted cannot father a child, John agrees to help find a sperm donor. They ask Sam J. Jones but he declines due to a sperm count of one. Then they unsuccessfully try to break into Tom Brady's house and steal his sperm. John ultimately volunteers to donate his sperm, but Tami-Lynn is found to be infertile due to past drug use; subsequently, the couple decide to adopt. The background checks bring Ted's legal status as a person into question, and the state authorities of Massachusetts declare Ted to be property rather than a person. Consequently, he loses his job, his credit card and bank accounts are terminated and his marriage to Tami-Lynn is annulled.   John suggests that they take the state to court. They ask the best lawyer they can find, who assigns the case pro bono to his niece Samantha "Sam" Jackson, a novice lawyer. They are initially reluctant due to her lack of pop culture knowledge, but bond over their love of marijuana as they prepare to present the case. Meanwhile, Donny, Ted's life-long stalker, is now working as a janitor at Hasbro's headquarters in New York City. He proposes to the company CEO to abduct Ted for research in order to manufacture live teddy bears commercially, convincing him to hire an expert attorney to ensure that Ted maintains his status as property.  Despite Sam's best efforts, the court rules against Ted. Disheartened and desperate, the trio contact Patrick Meighan, a highly respected civil rights attorney, to help overturn the court's decision. Along a trip to Manhattan to meet with Meighan, John and Sam fall in love and eventually kiss. When the trio meet Meighan, he is sympathetic to Ted's plight but ultimately refuses the case, as he believes Ted has not significantly contributed to humanity due to his lifestyle.  Furious at the injustice and jealous of Sam and John's relationship, Ted takes his frustrations out on them and angrily storms off, wandering into the New York Comic-Con. Donny, disguised as a Raphael cosplayer, discreetly follows Ted inside. Ted steals another person’s phone and calls Sam and John to inform them of his situation, just as Donny abducts him. John and Sam arrive and find Ted, just as Donny is about to cut him open. Ted apologizes to John and Sam for snapping at them and make their leave, but Donny severs the cables holding up a display model of the Enterprise-D and it swings towards Ted. John pushes Ted out of the way to save him, takes the hit and is knocked unconscious before Donny is arrested.  John is rushed to the hospital, where he flatlines. The next day, the group is told that John has died and tearfully visit him, but John wakes up and scares the group, revealing the doctors revived him and they worked with him afterwards to prank them. Although Sam is initially furious, she and John kiss as the group rejoices. Meighan decides to take the case, inspired by John's selflessness and Ted's emotions over the injured John. Meighan successfully gets the ruling overturned by demonstrating that Ted is self-aware, that he feels complex emotions, and is capable of empathy. Ted and Tami-Lynn remarry and adopt a baby boy, naming him after Rocky character "Apollo Creed",  while John and Sam happily pursue their own relationship. John even gives Apollo Creed a teddy bear of his own.  In a post-credit scene, a guy who previously bought a box of Trix cereal from Ted at the grocery store returns to the store, seemingly injured, and puts the cereal back on the counter and leaves with a look of betrayal.