In 1965 in Los Angeles, Lucy Cullins, her brother and her mother go to a shopping mall to see Santa Claus, who happens to be the real one and is nearing the end of his 200-year reign as St. Nick, and is seeking a replacement. When Lucy sits on his lap, he places the hat on her and it glows brightly, proving she would make a perfect Santa Claus replacement. Unfortunately, after leaving the mall, Lucy receives news that her father had been killed. Devastated, she begins to lose faith in the Christmas Spirit.  In the present day, Lucy, now grown into a cynical woman, has become more invested with her job as an network execute for the "Shop-A-Lot" Channel than her family. Meanwhile, Nick, who is spending his last Christmas as Santa, locates Lucy again and finds the opportunity to get close to her after hearing that the "Shop-A-Lot" is holding auditions to cast a Santa Claus to advertise Christmas memorabilia and increase the sales boost for the holiday. After nearly giving up hope of finding a good Claus, Lucy comes across Nick and reluctantly hires him, oblivious to the fact that he was the Santa from her past.  In Nick's first few days at work, calls come in big numbers and the network sells more Christmas stuff than any other shopping network. After congratulations and a salary raise, Nick couldn't be happier. He walks around the once-unpleasant community and begins to see the Christmas spirit for which he long hoped. Within time, Nick cultures a close friendship with Lucy. He begins to tell her about his reign and his choosing her as a successor, explaining if he doesn't find a successor, a giant flood will engulf the world, adding that that was the reason for the Noah's Ark story. Lucy finds the story ridiculous and tries to stay away from him.  One night, Nick goes to her house and tells her truthfully about his search. He tells her to close her eyes. When she opens them, she finds herself with Nick at the North Pole. Unbelievably still unconvinced, Lucy demands Nick to send her home. Nick does so, and she wakes up thinking the North Pole had been a dream. Seeing Nick on the couch, she starts to tell him about the dream. Nick interrupts her to tell her it wasn't, and begs her again to put on the Santa hat and become Santa Claus. Lucy still adamantly refuses.  Nick makes his final broadcast on Christmas Eve. In his closing statement, he says to never give up on Christmas spirit, and wishes everyone good luck, leading Lucy to ponder his last statement. After receiving a big thanks from the staff, Nick begins to head back to the North Pole without a successor and prepare for the flood with the elves. Before leaving, he sets the hat on Lucy's dresser, with a note that says it's never too late.  When Lucy gets a ride back home from her boss, she starts to believe what Nick said about Christmas, and her potential role as Santa. Realizing her boss just wants money and the power over Christmas, Lucy tells him to pull over, saying that no one owns Christmas. Upon arriving home, she finds the hat and the note. Curious, Lucy puts the hat on and it glows brightly. She realizes that she really is Santa.  Back at the North Pole, the elves preparing for the worst. Suddenly, one of the elves sees through a snow globe of Lucy wearing the hat. Once Ralph hears about it, he and Nick go to pick up Lucy. Lucy runs out of her apartment and finds Ralph and Santa in the cab. She goes inside and instantly transforms into Santa. For the first couple of houses, Nick helps Lucy go down the chimney and deliver the toys. Before they continue, Lucy tells Ralph to stop the sled and go to a church, where her niece is performing in the choir. When she arrives, she catches her niece's solo, and congratulates her, her brother, and her mom. Seeing her Santa suit, they seem puzzled. Suddenly, it starts to snow in LA. With surprised faces, people run outside, and see the sleigh. Lucy's family begins to realize she is Santa. After Lucy says goodbye to everyone and her family, she, Nick and Ralph go up and away into the Christmas night.