In Chile, Michael Green, a retired former employee of assassin organization Damocles, is killed by a specialist hit squad consisting of decoy Sindy, sniper Facundo, and an assault team of Alexei, Karl, and Hilde, all of whom are also Damocles employees.  Duncan Vizla, also known as The Black Kaiser, is a Damocles employee nearing mandatory retirement on his 50th birthday. By making sizable contributions to his company retirement fund, he is owed over $8 million when he retires. Duncan is pressured into accepting one final contract by Vivian, a common associate of Damocles.  He travels to Belarus to fulfill the mission, but finds it was a setup to have him killed. Unknown to him, Mr. Blut, owner of Damocles, plans to sell the company and is inflating its value by murdering its retired operatives, receiving their retirement benefits by way of a clause in their contract that lists Damocles as a benefactor.  Duncan, living in a remote Montana town, is continuously haunted by flashbacks of his violent past. He slowly begins to build a friendship with his troubled new neighbor, Camille. One day, after giving an ill-fated talk at a local school about foreign countries and combat, he gives Camille a gun as a gift. While trying to teach her how to shoot, she breaks down, seemingly disturbed by the weapon.  Meanwhile, Facundo's squad works to locate Duncan's residence. While beating his accountant, Lomas, they receive a list of his current property holdings. They work through the list without any success, killing the various residents of each property. They are finally able to track Duncan's location through recurring donation receipts to a Montana bank.  While coming home from stopping at the nearby town, Duncan finds Sindy broken down on the side of the road. The pair return to his house, where they end up having sex. While having sex on the bed, the kill squad engages. Duncan outmatches and kills all of the would-be assassins except for Alexei, who activates "Plan B.".   Duncan learns from Alexei's girlfriend, Junkie Jane, who, while high on heroin, tells him that "Plan B" was to kidnap Camille. Duncan seeks the help of his old friend Porter, who instead betrays and drugs him, giving him to Blut.  Duncan awakens in Blut's mansion, chained to the ceiling. He is tortured for three days by Blut for killing Hilde, whom Blut was in a relationship with. At the same time, Camille is kept in a heroin-induced, incoherent state by Junkie Jane.  On the third day of torture, Blut breaks off the blade of his favorite knife on metal fragments inside Duncan's body. In anger, Blut stabs Duncan in the left eye. Overnight, Duncan uses the broken blade to pick the locks on his shackles and, by morning, escapes the mansion, killing many of Blut's henchmen. He travels to see Jazmin, an old friend, who treats his wounds and supplies him with weapons.  Duncan calls Vivian and offers himself in exchange for Camille. She accepts, but on Blut's orders, she double-crosses him and arrives with Alexei and more of Blut's henchmen. Duncan gives Vivian a chance to walk away, but she refuses; Duncan then uses remote-controlled machine guns to kill everyone, leaving only a critically wounded Vivian.  Duncan returns to Blut's mansion, where the few remaining henchmen flee rather than face Duncan. Now alone, Blut awaits Duncan but ends up decapitated while calling for someone to bring him Camille. Duncan rescues Camille and returns to Montana, where he treats her inside her cabin.  Duncan awakens one morning inside Camille's cabin to find newspaper clippings of the murder of a family spread around Camille's bed. He recognizes the images as a hit that he carried out, albeit with bad intel, something that has haunted him ever since. The only survivor of the family was a young daughter, who grew up to be Camille.  To assuage his guilty conscience he has been making anonymous donations to her ever since, and she tracked him down by following the money trail. Held at gunpoint by Camille, Duncan apologizes and tells her to close her mind and pull the trigger. However, she spares him, asking if they can determine who ordered her father dead, and he commits to helping her.