Katie Gregerstitch and Billy are high school sweethearts from Minden, Oklahoma who are engaged to be married. An aspiring model he goes to NYC, promising to be back in six months for the wedding. On Valentine's Day, Katie's grandfather gives her a bus ticket to surprise him, but she catches him in bed with another woman.   Billy breaks off the engagement with Katie, who then goes to stay with her cousin Haley. She convinces Katie to start an independent life of her own, instead of sitting around doing nothing. One day, when Haley has an audition, Katie takes over her job as a messenger.   When Katie makes a delivery to a large building construction company, the deputy director Debra sees the naive girl and befriends her. She preys on Richard's job as CEO and has come up with a plan to frame him for sabotage to take over the company. To aid herself with that, she and her assistant Freddy make sure that Richard’s secretary gets dismissed and that the naive Katie takes her place.   Debra takes Katie to give her a makeover. With a more professional appearance, and an embellished resumè, Katie gets hired by Richard Connolley. Katie meanwhile meets Ben, who works as a postman in the building, who befriends her.  An idea of Katie's to get a potential investor, by throwing a kids party for his kid while he sneaks off to do business is sabotaged by Debra and Freddy. They spike their juice with energy drink, slash the bouncy castle, fill the piñata with fireworks and hire male strippers dressed as cops.   After losing the contract, Katie gets fired, but she uses her charms to get a second chance from Richard. She secures the interest of a group of Norwegian investors with Ben's help, but no thanks to Freddy who tries to sabotage it.   Richard shares an important confidential marina project with Katie. Not realizing Debra's ulterior motives she manages to get the confidential information out of Katie. That evening Ben shows up at Katie's. After pizza, a dance and a kiss her grandfather gives her a surprise visit.   The next day at work, Debra ensures the Board of Directors fires Richard, using information from the report she'd weaseled out of Katie the previous day. She also discloses that Katie's resumé is padded (as Freddy had done it).  Returning to the apartment, Katie finds Billy waiting for her. She turns him away, only to have her grandfather reappear with him. As she'd never told him they had broken up, Billy pretty easily gets her to pack up to return to Minden. Just before they leave, her grandfather sets her aside, telling her Haley filled him in on Billy's infidelity, so he takes him back home.  Meanwhile, as Katie has discovered that Ben is actually Richard’s son, together with him they devise a ruse to outsmart Debra. When she proposes the project to the investors, it is actually Haley and some friends who pose as the investors. At the same time, Katie presents her own proposal to the real investors, who satisfyingly take it. When Debra discovers the deception, she flies into a rage, tries to destroy their model of it and thus gets fired.  Afterwards, Katie gets Richard reinstated and when she moves to give Ben a kiss, he deflects it. She leaves unhappy and when Richard asks why he was cold, he mentions her fiancé. Ben races after her and they finally have a second kiss.