An elderly Homer (Perry Long) sits down in his home and begins writing a lost installment of the Odyssey, the tale of the Isle of the Mists, a story he felt was too terrible to tell before.  Years prior, Homer (Randal Edwards) is a member of Odysseus's (Arnold Vosloo) crew as they sail back to Ithaca following the Trojan War. The crew also includes Perimedes (JR Bourne), Eurylochus (Steve Bacic), Christos (Michael Antonakos) and others. During their travels, they become lost in a deep fog and encounter strange flying creatures who kill several men and drink their blood. The only thing that can kill the creatures is a wooden stake through the heart. In disarray, the crew lands at an island, the fabled Isle of the Mists, to repair their ships and recover from the attack.  After more encounters with the winged creatures, the crew meets a mysterious woman (Stefanie von Pfetten) who takes them to her refuge in the woods. Much to their surprise, the creatures seemingly ignore her and do not invade her sanctuary. Some of the crew remains suspicious even as they accept food and shelter from the woman. They learn of the Hellfire Cross, a mystical sword sealed by the gods on the island, that they come to believe can help them survive. The remaining crew decide to recover the Hellfire Cross as part of their plan to relaunch their ship.  After receiving visions from Athena (Sonya Salomaa), Odysseus realizes the mysterious woman is not what she seems. She uses her powers to transform into Odysseus's wife Penelope (Leah Gibson) and seduces him. Her failure to account for Penelope aging since the last time Odysseus saw her makes him realize the illusion, but only after he has sex with her. Odysseus and his remaining men realize her true identity: Persephone, the wife of Hades who has been banished to the Isle of the Mists and sealed there by the Hellfire Cross. Persephone reveals that the winged creatures are her children by Hades, and that she plans to escape the island with them to rule the world. Furthermore, she is now pregnant with a son by Odysseus.  Odysseus and his men escape to the cave where the Hellfire Cross is sealed and obtain it, however, all but Odysseus and Homer die. They are confronted by Persephone, who thanks them for her freedom and attempts to convince Odysseus to serve her, as the Hellfire Cross cannot be wielded by a god. When he refuses, she tells them she will merely wait until her mortal son is born and ages instead. She starts to set the winged creatures free on the world and attempts to force Odysseus to cut his own throat, but he overcomes her power and impales her through the stomach, killing Persephone, their son and all the creatures. Some time after Persephone's death, Odysseus and Homer return to the sea and continue back to Ithaca.  Completing his story, the aged Homer muses about the origins of the winged creatures, how they could only be killed by a stake through the heart, and how they fear the sign of the cross. On the Isle of the Mists, Eurylochus - who was attacked by the creatures in the cave - has transformed into one of the creatures and flies off freely into the world.