Max Stevenson is an introvert who suffers from social anxiety. Under threat of possibly losing his job for always working from home, his therapist suggests he get a dog as a way to interact with people. He adopts a quiet Cavelier King Charles Spaniel, naming her Chloe. Max works in IT and is a collector.   Nicole Matthews, a messy commitment-phobe, goes to her mom's and meets her sister's new fiancé Alistair. Her mother has given her younger daughter her engagement ring, having given up on Nicole settling down.   Over dinner, when Nicole proudly announces she's been promoted to head stager for her real estate company, her mother belittles her job. Talking to Alistair like she's not there, she's openly critical about Nicole's life choices.  While Max goes to bed early, as he dislikes typical weekend nightlife, Nicole is out doing shots and clubbing. Arriving home late, she inadvertently adopts a homeless dog hanging round her building's dumpster after showing him kindness. After cleaning him, she names him Channing Tatum.  Both Nicole and Max go on Bumble, choosing each other because of their dog pics. Meeting up in the park, he tries to a couple of lines that his friend suggested, badly. Max's OCD and Nicole's extroverted behavior result in a disastrous first date. She gives him ghost-pepper hot spicy chicken, meant to be a type of truth serum, which he hates. Then, when Max asks Nicole a question she deflects. Meanwhile, the dogs disappear and they find them fornicating. He is disgusted, telling her off, and the polar opposites vow to never speak again.   However, when Max and Nicole learn that Channing has gotten Chloe pregnant, they are forced to co-parent the animals. Meeting up in the park, they clearly see their dogs are fond of each other, so they agree to set up dog play dates in neither of their homes.   Shortly after, Nicole's landlord threatens to evict her because of Channing, so Max agrees to let him stay. However, Nicole then has to stay as he's lonely. Nicole temporarily brings in second-hand items for a house she's staging, which triggers his OCD.   Taking a walk calms Max's nerves, so when he returns he explains to Nicole that his COVID quarantine, caused by a serious girlfriend's cheating, worsened his OCD. She shows empathy, prompting his spontaneous kiss. Nicole didn't reciprocate, so they agree to stay neutral.  As they spend more time together, Max is able to return to work. They do doggie lamaze classes and bond more. Nicole invites Max to go out for drinks, he refuses, so she meets her girlfriend alone. One of her clients Hunter, whose house she successfully staged, shows up and they party.   Returning to Max's to walk the dogs, Hunter is with Nicole. They wake Max, who ends up punching Hunter. He leaves, the dog owners fight and a frightened Chloe leaves through the door Hunter hadn't closed upon leaving.   Max kicks them both out upon his return with Chloe. A few days later Nicole returns with an apology. Together again, the humans and dogs do a road trip for her art school interview but get waylaid due to Chloe going into labor. Unbeknownst to Nicole Max submitted her portfolio virtually, so right after they spend the night together for the first time she is surprised to be accepted into the art program.   The film ends with a combined welcome into the world party for the puppies and congratulations for Nicole's college acceptance.