Diane Sherman gives birth to a premature daughter, whom she goes to see lying in an incubator, surrounded by the hospital staff. Years later, Diane lives a quiet life with her now teenage daughter, Chloe. Due to the circumstances of Chloe's birth, she suffers from arrhythmia, hemochromatosis, asthma, and diabetes, as well as partial paralysis at her legs. She uses a wheelchair, takes multiple medications daily, and is homeschooled by her mother.   One morning, while looking through a bag of groceries for chocolate, Chloe finds a prescription bottle of green pills with Diane's name on the label. However, when Chloe later inspects the bottle, she finds a label bearing her name has been pasted over the original. Chloe tries to look up the name of the pillsTrigoxinbut discovers the house has no internet connection; Diane is seen sitting in the dark behind her. The next day, Chloe dials a random number from her mother's bedroom phone, and asks the answering stranger to look up the drug. He tells her it is a heart medication and that all pictures of the medication show a small red pill.  Chloe asks Diane to take her to the movies. During the film, while pretending to go to the bathroom, she rushes to the pharmacy across the street from the theater. The pharmacist at the desk reveals the green pills are a relaxant called Ridocaine, which had been only approved for dogs. When Chloe asks what would happen if a human took it, the pharmacist informs her that it could paralyze their legs. Upon realizing her mother may be giving her the pills to impair her ability to walk, Chloe begins to hyperventilate. Diane runs in and sedates her daughter to take her home.  Chloe wakes up in bed and finds her bedroom door locked from the outside, while Diane is out running an errand. Realizing that she has the house to herself, Chloe breaks out of her room by dragging herself onto the roof, and eventually making her way to her mother's bedroom and breaking the window with a soldering iron and water. She begins to have an asthma attack and only barely manages to crawl to her room to retrieve her inhaler. She tries to use her automated wheelchair ramp to go downstairs, but finds that Diane has cut the power cord. Chloe is forced to throw her wheelchair down the stairs and accidentally falls, sustaining minor injuries but also discovering that she can move one of her toes, due to having not taken Ridocaine in the last few days.  Outside down the road, Chloe sees a mail truck and rushes to stop it; she explains her situation to Tom, the postal worker, who agrees to help her. Diane pulls up and Chloe asks him to contact the police. Tom confronts Diane and tells her she can't take Chloe home. When closing up the van to take Chloe to the police station, Diane appears and stabs Tom with a syringe. Chloe hyperventilates and then blacks out, and when she awakes, she is in the basement of her house, with her wheelchair chained to a steel pole. Diane drags Tom through her hallway and a trail of blood can be seen, implying Diane killed him after injecting him.  While in the basement, Chloe discovers all of her childhood photos, which show her walking, as well as a death certificate for a girl named Chloe who died two hours after her birth and an article about a couple who had their baby stolen from the same hospital. When Diane enters, Chloe accuses her of deliberately making her sick and demands the truth. Diane insists everything she ever did was to help and protect Chloe; when Chloe accuses Diane of poisoning her, Diane exclaims that she saved her, while filling a syringe with paint thinner, saying it will make her forget. Chloe crawls away and locks herself in a closet. Afraid, but realizing that her "mother" would not let her die, Chloe swallows a bottle of organophosphate, forcing Diane to rush her to the hospital.  Chloe wakes up in a hospital bed, intubated and barely able to move. Diane insists that her "daughter" be discharged, but the doctors refuse until Chloe has been evaluated by a mental health professional. Chloe signals to a nurse, who brings her a crayon and paper. While Chloe is attempting to write "MOM" on the paper, a code blue is called and the nurse rushes out. Armed with a handgun, Diane then sneaks in and ties Chloe to a wheelchair to escape; the nurse finds the bed empty and alerts hospital security. As a panicking Diane tries to find an exit, Chloe is able to move her foot and hold the chair in place. Diane begs her to come home with her, but Chloe replies that she doesn't need her anymore. Diane aims her gun at security guards while cornered and is shot in the arm, causing her to fall down the stairs.  Seven years later, Chloe still relies on her wheelchair, although is able to walk short distances using a cane. She visits Diane in a correctional facility, who is confined to a bed in the infirmary ward, and begins discussing the life she built for herself, including her husband, children, and career. She speaks about her children's preference in grandparents, suggesting that Chloe reunited with her birth family. Chloe takes out three plastic-wrapped Ridocaine pills she hid under her tongue, and tells Diane that she still loves her before asking her to open her mouth wide.