In Johnson County, Iowa, Destiny is a 10-year-old African American foster child being raised by a white couple, Ethan and Jill Emmet. While visiting the Iowa State Fair by herself, she wanders into the exhibit of the winning butter sculpture, a life-sized Last Supper, and skillfully finishes the Holy Grail cup, which impresses the sculpture's creator, Bob Pickler.  Bob has won the fair's butter-sculpture contest for the past 15 years straight; because of his dominance, he is asked to abstain from future competitions to give others a chance. Bob's overly-competitive, socially-ambitious wife Laura goes to the home of the competition's organizer to protest. He goes to a strip club and stripper Brooke talks him into having sex in his minivan. Laura discovers them, T-bonesing the van with her SUV.  Laura decides to enter the county's preliminary sculpture competition herself because of the social status that comes with winning. Destiny decides to enter as well, as does Brooke, who just wants to harass the Picklers because Bob owes her $600. Despite practice, Laura comes in second to Destiny.  When Brooke appears at the Picklers' seeking her money, Bob's daughter Kaitlin admits her, letting her in her window. After they talk a bit, Kaitlin challenges Brooke to a game of truth-or-dare which escalates to them having sex. She is drawn to Brooke's alternative style and attitude. Brooke wants the money (she ups the amount to $1200), which she says she can get.  Meanwhile, Kaitlin's stepmother, Laura hooks up with Boyd Bolton, an old high-school boyfriend who is now an owner of a used-car dealership, also is a skilled butter sculptor. She seduces him to get him to falsely testify to county officials that Ethan paid him to help Destiny in the competition. Laura suggests a rematch at the state fair. Destiny agrees; everyone else is disgruntled.  Brooke gets her money from an infatuated Kaitlin, meets Destiny after school, and takes her to the mall to buy her a $1200 set of chef's knives to help her in the rematch with Laura. When Destiny gets home, a social worker informs her that her biological mother has died and gives her a picture of her mom holding her as a baby.  At the state fair, Laura carves a replica of John F. Kennedy's car immediately after his assassination, complete with his blown-up skull and Jackie Kennedy and Clint Hill crawling onto the trunk; Destiny creates her biological mother holding her infant self in a rocking chair. That night before the judging, Boyd sneaks into the butter-sculpture room and defaces Destiny's sculpture with a blowtorch.  Destiny, disappointed and expecting to lose now, encounters Laura in the restroom and offers the forgiveness of her handshake. Laura tells her that winning the butter-sculpting contest means more to her than the little girl can comprehend. Laura feels she has little opportunity to distinguish herself otherwise, while Destiny has talent and her entire life to realize her own potential.  Despite the damage, Destiny's sculpture wins. The sabotage of the piece is recognized as "higher art" as the judges believe the melted face lends the butter sculpture a greater depth. She goes on to win in the state competition, where judges give a positive critique on her piece, deeming it an "angst-ridden exploration of post-natal abandonment."  Upon her victory, Destiny comforts Laura by telling her, "This isn't all you have." Laura hugs her, understanding that she must move on to greater triumphs that are her own.  Later, Destiny is officially adopted by the Emmets and Laura runs for Governor, claiming that God appeared to her and advised her to run.