Don Johnston, a former Don Juan who made a small fortune in the computer industry, wants to live in quiet retirement. He is content to lounge around watching old movies and listening to classical or easy listening music. His current girlfriend, Sherry, is ending their relationship and moving out of his house when a letter in a pink envelope arrives.  Later Don reads the letter; it purports to be from an unnamed former girlfriend, informing him that he has a son who is nearly nineteen years old, and who may be looking for him. Initially, Don does not intend to do anything about it, but his busybody neighbor Winston, who is a mystery novel enthusiast, urges Don to investigate. Winston researches the current locations of the five women most likely to have written the letter and gives Don the information along with maps and flight reservations, and persuades him to visit them.  Ultimately Don meets with four women (the fifth one had died before the events of the film), each encounter worse than the last and each woman damaged in some way:  Laura works as a closet and drawer organizer and is the widow of a race car driver. She is very warm and receptive to Don's visit, but has a very forward teenage daughter, Lolita, who parades nude in front of him before her mother arrives. Both mom and daughter are oblivious to the implications of the name "Lolita". That night, Laura sleeps with Don.  Dora is a realtor. Once a "flower child" of the 1960s, she is now living a suburban conservative middle class existence married to Ron. The encounter, while friendly on the surface, belies a great deal of tension with Ron coming across as threatening, and Dora as pained and nervous.  Carmen Markowski works as an "animal communicator". Don recalls how she was formerly so passionate about becoming a lawyer. She is cold to Don and seems to have a close relationship with her secretary, who is very protective of her and unimpressed by Don's sudden visit.  Penny lives in a rural area amongst bikers. She appears to still harbour a great deal of resentment toward Don, and when he asks if she has a son, she becomes furious. Two men appear and beat Don up. The next morning, Don finds himself in his car, in the middle of a field, with a nasty cut near his left eye.  Later, Don stops at a florist to buy flowers from a young woman named Sun Green who treats his cut.  Don leaves the flowers at the grave of the fifth woman, Michelle Pepe.  Finally, Don returns home where he finds a pink letter from Sherry, admitting she still likes him. He discusses the trip and second letter with Winston, who theorizes that Sherry might have written the original letter as a hoax. He then goes home to compare the two letters.  Don then meets a young man in the street whom he suspects may be his son. He buys him a meal, but when he remarks that the young man believes that Don is his father, the young man becomes agitated and flees. Don attempts to chase the man but gives up, standing in the middle of a crossroads. Don watches a Volkswagen Beetle drive past from which a young man in the passenger seat makes eye contact with Don, while the same music Don has listened to on his trip plays from the passing car.