Legend of Crystania (レジェンド・オブ・クリスタニア, Rejendo obu Kurisutania) is a Japanese media franchise of RPGs, novels, anime and manga by Ryo Mizuno and Group SNE. The novels by Mizuno and others were published from 1993 to 2002, based on Mizuno's RPG "replays" serialized in the Japanese magazines Comptiq and later in Dengeki-Oh (Blitz King) from November 1989 to January 1998 issues.

A full-length Japanese animated motion picture Legend of Crystania: The Motion Picture (はじまりの冒険者たち レジェンド・オブ・クリスタニア, Hajimari no Bōkenshatachi: Rejendo obu Kurisutania, First-time Adventurers: Legend of Crystania) (screened as a double feature together with Slayers The Motion Picture), a three-volume manga illustrated by Akira Himekawa, and a video game for PC 98, Crystania: Legend of the Gods’ King (神王伝説クリスタニア, Shin'ō Densetsu Crystania), were released in 1995. Radio drama (later re-released as Drama CD) adapting the same story was released earlier in 1993.  and tabletop RPG materials were also released. The film has been released on VHS on September 22, 1998 and on DVD on February 8, 2000 in North America by ADV Films.

The film's sequel, the three-part original video animation  (OVA) series Legend of Crystania: The Chaos Ring, was released in 1996. These episodes were released on VHS on November 11, 1998 and on DVD on March 19, 2002 in North America by ADV Films.

The series takes place in the same fantasy world as Ryo Mizuno other series Record of Lodoss War and Rune Soldier, albeit on a different continent. It focuses on the land which Ashram sailed to after the Lodoss series, a continent called Crystania which is under the rule of the animal gods. Ashram is the king of the people of Marmo, the cursed island in Record of Lodoss War. The plot of Crystania centers on Pirotess's (now called Sheru) quest to free Ashram from Barbas, although many new characters are introduced in the course of the story and the main character of the first series is Redon, a prince of the kingdom of Da'nan, a peninsula to the north of Crystania. Other main characters are Rails, Boakes and Luth.

The series ran from 1993 to 2002. The first several novels were published by Kadokawa Shoten. Later releases were published by MediaWorks, a former division of Kadokawa Shoten. The first four novels were written by Record of Lodoss War author Ryo Mizuno and illustrated by Satoshi Urushihara. Later novels were written mostly by other authors and illustrated by various artists.

In 1995 The Black Knight (黒衣の騎士, Kokui no Kishi) was released. Though technically part of the Record of Lodoss War novel series it also details Ashram leaving Lodoss island, his group´s sail to Crystania and the deal with Barbas.