Paige, an environmental lawyer, and Sasha, a struggling musician working as a receptionist, are long-time best friends in their late 20s. Paige supports her friend in her LBGTQ rallies and they regularly watch TV shows together.  After forcing themselves to try online dating one night, they go on separate dates. Sasha's ends in disaster, while Paige has a good date with Tim, a young and charming dermatologist.  Sasha continues to have a string of bad dates and failed relationships, while Paige and Tim continue dating. When Paige has a big win at work, he whisks her off to a celebratory dinner, thwarting the surprise party Sasha had organised.   As Paige and Tim spend more and more time together, she is impressed with his thoughtfulness and her mother helps her coax him into improving his style. Sasha begins to feel excluded as Paige begins to focus more on Tim and their relationship. Even on Sasha's 29th birthday, when she and Paige are meant to spend the whole evening celebrating in a motel, his call disrupts the evening.  Tim eventually surprises Paige with a proposal and she accepts.   Paige begins to feel that Sasha is childish, as she hates the girls Sasha dates and does not think much of her lack of direction. She voices this to Tim, but tries to be supportive of Sasha.  The woman Sasha is seeing is another lesbian friend's ex, when the group finds out she is excluded. Then the woman in question moves on, and Paige goes over with it.  At a barbecue that Paige and Tim host, they try to set up Sasha with a new lawyer in her firm, a woman they think of as kind and reliable. When Sasha is rude to her and blows her off, Paige and Sasha have a falling-out and stop speaking to one another.  Sasha gets fired from her job over her poor performance, specifically by failing to send a bid to China when told to, losing a job for the company. She later runs into Tim, who is also having a difficult time in his relationship with Paige, who is constantly trying to control him and refuses to apologize. While there, Tim also tells Sasha that it is fine for her to give up on her dream of being a musician if that is no longer what she is passionate about. The conversation leaves Sasha with a better impression of Tim.  After spending some time in a bridal shop with her domineering mother trying on wedding dresses, Paige realizes she learned to be too stubborn from her. She goes home and first finally admits to the neighbor that she's at fault for having run into his parked car days ago, then apologizes to Tim.   Some time later, as Paige is out driving her car, she sees Sasha at the stop light ahead. They begin to honk and shout at each other in pretend anger, a joke that they played on one another when they were friends, to show that all is forgiven.