Toni Braxton is one of five daughters raised in a devoutly Methodist household by their mother, Evelyn, and reverend father, Michael. Evelyn dreams of her daughters becoming famous singers. After the sisters audition as a group for record executive L.A. Reid, only Toni is offered a recording contract. Despite initial fears of upsetting her family, Toni accepts. Evelyn makes Toni promise to help her sisters once she has found success.  At LaFace Records, Toni records with singer and producer Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds. She releases a successful self-titled debut album in 1993. Toni hires her sisters as backup singers and dancers. After learning Toni had breast augmentation, the conservative Evelyn fears success is changing her daughter for the worse, but Toni's sisters are supportive. Toni is nominated for several Grammy awards and wins Best New Artist. She follows this up with the hit ballad "Un-Break My Heart," resulting in her biggest success yet.  During her latest tour, Toni learns that she is losing money due to the shows’ large scale and a lack of sponsors. After the tour ends, her manager informs her that she signed a bad record contract and is now $4 million in debt. Toni declares Chapter 7 bankruptcy and sues LaFace. She wins the case, but a condition of her settlement is to not publicly discuss it for a decade.  Toni and keyboardist Keri Lewis begin a romantic relationship. When she unexpectedly gets pregnant, Toni decides to have an abortion because she's been using the acne medication isotretinoin, which can cause birth defects. Eventually, Toni and Keri get married and have two healthy sons: Denim and Diezel.  For the sake of stability, Toni accepts a residency at the Flamingo Las Vegas. When Diezel is diagnosed with autism, she arranges for him to receive the best therapy available. Meanwhile, Evelyn and Michael's marriage ends when she discovers that he's had a mistress for nine years.  Toni suffers from fatigue and fainting spells, culminating in her being hospitalized for cardiac arrest. She recovers, but is diagnosed with lupus and told to reduce her workload. She keeps her diagnosis a secret and cancels her Las Vegas residency, resulting in litigation from the show's vendors. Forced to declare bankruptcy, Keri and Toni's already strained marriage ends in a divorce.  Toni reveals her lupus diagnosis to the public, hoping people will understand why she can no longer work at an intense pace. Evelyn apologizes for having placed the burden of financially supporting the whole family upon Toni's shoulders. The other Braxton sisters convince Toni to do a reality show with them called Braxton Family Values.  Feeling burnt out, Toni announces her retirement from the music industry. Babyface, not wanting her to quit, proposes they record together again. She agrees as long as the songwriting process is an equal collaboration. The resulting record wins the Grammy Award for Best R&B Album in 2015. The epilogue shows the real Toni Braxton playing the piano, singing "Un-break my Heart," while text lists her many accomplishments.