Rachel Stevens is a 29-year-old California high school English teacher who volunteers to chaperone three of her students to a drama competition for the weekend: the organized Margot, affable Sam, and the struggling but talented Billy. On Friday, she meets with the principal to discuss details and learns Billy is on medication for a behavioral disorder. Arriving at the hotel, the group checks in and, during a mixer, Rachel meets another teacher named Walter. They hint about their attraction to each other despite his wife and later have awkward sex in his hotel room. While coming back to her room, she sees Billy sitting with his head in his hands outside his room. When she confronts him, he laughs it off and says he lost his key. Rachel returns and spends the rest of the night drinking in her bedroom and rehearsing dialogue that she uses in the classroom.  The next day, Rachel goes to a car mechanic to repair a flat tire. Billy insists on joining her while the other students rehearse their monologues. He tells her that the rehearsals are optional, and they drive to the mechanic together. Upon learning that they must wait an hour at the shop, they decide to walk a mile to a local diner. While walking back roads, they discuss the conversations from the previous night's dinner. Billy asks her if she is a lesbian, as it was hinted at during the dinner, and she replies that the conversation has turned inappropriate. They return to the hotel, and Sam explains to Billy that he missed the important rehearsals. He walks it off and joins others in the auditorium. During the first round of competition, Margot forgets her monologue from A Streetcar Named Desire and  Rachel consoles her. Margot reveals that the trip was not paid for by the school but by her parents. She says that she thinks Billy is a good actor, and if he wins, then the school might put more funding back into the arts. Later, during dinner, Billy calls Rachel by her first name, upsetting her and surprising the other two students.  She leaves dinner to visit Walter, but he rejects her, and she returns to her room. Later Billy knocks on her door to apologize for dinner but, seeing she is sad, barges his way into her room and tries to cheer her up by jumping on her bed. She joins him on the bed and appears careless and relaxed for the first time. Following this, he also asks Rachel personal questions, which results in Rachel unexpectedly confiding in him that she is still struggling after her mother's death a year earlier. Billy comforts her with a hug, which Rachel reciprocates before realizing it is inappropriate. She tries to force Billy to leave, but they are joined by Sam and Margot, who come to her with boy troubles. When Rachel consoles Sam after a poor date, Billy watches dejectedly. Exasperated, Billy finally leaves and slams the door, leaving the group in stunned silence.  The next morning, Billy passionately recites his monologue from Death of a Salesman. When Rachel congratulates him, he pulls her aside and explains he was thinking of her during his monologue and that he is off his medication. Realizing that the situation is out of control, Rachel calls the principal causing Billy to run off. Unable to reach the principal, Rachel runs into Walter, who advises her to stop caring about her students so much. Rachel returns to the awards ceremony where Billy wins second place. On the way home, things remain awkward between them until Margot reminds them that Billy has yet to take the makeup test for The Great Gatsby he was supposed to complete before attending the competition. The students devise a plan to answer questions from the test Margot has in her bag and use Sam's notebook. Billy takes the test and passes.  Back at the school, having driven all three kids back, Rachel suggests that Billy talk to his parents about his medication and allow them to take care of him. Billy tells Rachel she needs someone to take care of her as well. She sits in her car for a beat, then exits, and turns to approach Billy and his family with a smile.