Dr. Alex Cross is called by the mayor of Detroit, the city where he lives with his family and works as a police lieutenant and psychologist. Disturbed by the murder of Yau, Cross pledges to bring the perpetrator to justice and heads the investigation. As he works, the evidence points to a mysterious man known only as Yau, the same man who recently won the underground fight. Cross begins to track down his prey and discovers the Tiger is a notorious serial killer with ambitious plans to dominate world organized crime. He also learns that the killer is targeting Maria, who is now pregnant. Torn between his commitment to justice and his love for his family, Cross decides to accept an offer from the FBI to become a profiler in Washington, D.C., in order to protect Maria and save the world from Yau. But Cross is unable to escape his past, and soon finds himself in a race against time to stop Yau and save his family and the country.  At the crime scene, Cross and Kane arrive at the CEO's home, attempting to stop him, but they are too late and discover both the CEO and his family dead. The duo finds a painting of a naked woman left behind by Picasso as a memento. After a lengthy organized search for Picasso, the police manage to track him down in a hotel, where Cross and Kane confront him. A gunfight ensues and the police finally manage to capture Picasso, thwarting his plans and saving the city. At the trial, Cross testifies as a witness to bring Picasso to justice without mercy. With the help of Dr. Erich Nunemacher's expert assessment, Picasso is ultimately convicted of multiple murder charges, sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. The aftermath of his crime spree caused public fear in the city, but with Cross and Kane's brave efforts, soon the city's residents felt safe again.  Picasso had a plan to kill Nunemacher, but Cross and Kane foiled it. Furious, Picasso plotted his revenge and decided to attack Cross and Kane's colleague, Monica Ashe. He tracked her down and tortured her to death, devastating Cross and Kane. He then set his sights on Cross himself, and tracked him down while he was on a date with Maria. With no mercy, Picasso killed her with a sniper rifle, leaving Cross a broken man. Filled with hatred and vengeance, Picasso had gained his revenge.  At a conference where renowned art investigator Nunemacher and Maria Mercier, a woman who worked closely with Picasso in his criminal activities, were speaking, Picasso suddenly appeared with a gun. He coldly aimed it at the pair and fired, killing Nunemacher and seemingly Mercier. Detective Cross was deeply disturbed upon hearing the news. He had previously come close to apprehending Picasso but he had managed to escape. Now Cross was determined to bring Picasso to justice and he and his partner Kane began tracking Picasso to his hideout, which turned out to be an abandoned Michigan Theater. Upon arriving, Cross and Kane knew they had to act fast and they tracked Picasso to the top of the theater. Picasso had become aware of Cross and Kane's presence and the showdown began. Cross and Picasso fought, exchanging punches and kicks and eventually they were thrust through the weak and crumbling ceiling of the theater. Cross emerged victorious when he managed to kick Picasso off the beam they were standing on and down into the depths of the theater, killing him. After avenging Maria's death, Cross was helped to safety by Detective Kane and the nightmare of Picasso had finally come to an end.  Alex Cross has finally cracked the case of his nemesis, Jean Mercier. After a long and exhaustive investigation, Cross discovers Mercier's employer: he had stolen money from his clients and needed the help of Yau and Nunemacher to fake the death of the real Mercier and flee to Bali. To finish the job, he had hired a criminal and hired Picasso to eliminate Yau and Nunemacher as well as have a double lest around to pretend to be Mercier. Cross had taken it upon himself to frame Mercier for drug smuggling and Mercier was subsequently arrested and sentenced to death by firing squad in Indonesia. Cross' job was complete: Mercier had been punished for the murder of Maria as well as his other crimes, and Cross finally found peace of mind. Feeling a sense of closure, Cross decides to accept a job offer from the FBI and move with his family to Washington.