Finding themselves trapped inside another (collapsing) simulation (as in "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!") which they are informed is corrupt, Rick and Morty fight their way out of the Pyramid Sector, killing simulated versions of Noob Noob and a Glootie-controlled toilet, before taking on demonic visages of Scary Terry and Tammy Gueterman in the Horror Zone, acquiring the former's glove and impaling the latter after weakening her via a toxic vat of acid.  Proceeding onto the Interdimensional Cable "Cop City", Rick and Morty fight their way through a fruit police army with the help of Birdperson and Mr. Meeseeks, defeating a parasite and robotic snake-empowered Li'l Bits, before Morty is kidnapped by a giant simulated sentient version of the Gwendolyn sex robot. After fighting off several enlarged Ghost in a Jar parasites in pursuit of Morty into the Heaven Layer, Rick engages in one-on-one combat with Gazorpazorpfield, gaining his respect before continuing on in search of Morty, armed with a weaponised Plumbus. Discovering Morty trapped by an amalgamated composite of his various love interests: the Gwendolyn robot merged with mutated versions of Jessica, Tricia Lange, and Morty's Girlfriend (from "The Vat of Acid Episode"), Rick engages them (and further simulated offspring of Morty's created by Gwendolyn) in combat, freeing Morty. After freeing Morty, Rick and he proceed deeper into the simulation to the Online World, taking out the Beta 7 hive mind with Belle Delphine's GamerGirl Bath Water before taking out numerous enlarged representations of Phoenixperson, a Wasp Rick and Ants-in-My-Eyes Johnson-wielding Beekeeper Jerry, and Rick's experiments, using enlarged Pickle Ricks against them, before finally finding themselves before President Morty Smith of The Citadel; sitting on his throne surrounded by The Matrix-inspired monitors of his visage, and declaring himself "God of this Infinite Hell", he warns the duo that the Nightmare Machine cannot die, and they will now become as Void, before vanishing on being punched in the face by Morty.  Equipping their anime armour from "Promortyus", Rick and Morty take on the subsequently-appearing giant robotic floating head of the former President Morty's "Eyepatch Morty-as-Evil Rick" visage from "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", destroying the outer Rick shell to display its eyepatched inner layer. On the cusp of defeat, the pair summon Snuffles, the Ricklets, and Ice-T as a distraction, before Morty stabs the monstrosity through the eye, destroying it. Descending through the eye to "The Core" of the simulation, Rick and Morty prepare to face a giant time police officer, only for him to be weakened by a returning Gazorpazorpfield to allow Rick (with assist from Unity) to kill him, and Morty to then hack the malfunctioning core to destroy it, inadvertently freeing the gigantic Toxic Morty at its core, who incapacitates Rick and Morty with a mouth laser blast.  Having also been trapped in the simulation, Space Beth retrieves the unconscious Rick and Morty in her ship, and one-shots the steadily-eye-increasing Toxic Morty with her laser cannon, freeing an angelic deity from its core whom Space Beth then impales with a knife, causing the simulation (and its universe) to Reboot. As the simulation reboots, images of the Tree of Life, Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam, and Akira are glimpsed, before returning the status quo to the Smith family eating breakfast at home, and ceding with a final glitch into a promotion for "Mort Dinner Rick Andre", the fifth season premiere of Rick and Morty.