In 1970s New York City, David Marks, the son of a powerful real estate tycoon Sanford Marks, marries Katie McCarthy, a working-class student. Together they try to establish a new life in Vermont, setting up a health food store called All Good Things. However, Sanford manipulates David into returning to the city, telling him that Katie deserves more than he's currently giving her. Upon their return, Katie brings up the idea of having children. David says it will never ever happen, which leads Katie to assume something is wrong with his fertility. After buying a lake house, Katie confesses to their pregnant neighbor that she is expecting as well. David responds angrily upon finding out and forces Katie to make an appointment for an abortion. He misses the appointment when he is called away to do work for his father.  Katie enters medical school while her relationship with David continues to deteriorate. She makes inquiries about a separation, but her funds, which she needs in order to pay for school, are cut off when she attempts to leave. Having been advised that she will need leverage to compel the family to give her a settlement, Katie attempts to find incriminating documents of their financial activities. She then disappears without a trace in 1982, despite a $15,000 reward offered for any information on her whereabouts.  Eighteen years later, the case is reopened by the district attorney after reading an unpublished novel written by David's best friend, Deborah Lehrman, which contains a murder almost identical to the Marks case. Soon after this is announced, Lehrman is shot and killed in her home, and David is under suspicion again while standing trial for the murder of his neighbor Malvern Bump in Texas. David is acquitted of the murder of Bump; the film states that nobody has ever been tried for Lehrman's murder and that Katie remains a missing person to this day. A flash-back implies that David left his wife's remains in the trunk of her car, which the father finds. The film ends with David visiting his dying father and whispering to him, "I miss her so much." It's left to the viewer to decide whether he is talking about Katie or his mother.