The plot is based on the uncut long-form edit of the movie. The original was split into 11 separate music videos, each released individually, beginning with the music video for "The Phoenix" and ending with "Save Rock and Roll."  The Phoenix The Defenders of the Faith (Fall Out Boy) are in possession of a glowing briefcase, which Stump handcuffs to his left hand. As he heads out down the sidewalk, he sees a young boy that distracts him while a woman stuns him from behind with a taser and kidnaps him. Stump is taken to a room where he is tied to a chair and his hand is strapped to a cutting board by two women. After some tormenting, the women cut off Stump's hand, freeing the briefcase. They continue to torture him by inserting probes into him and removing some of his organs. Samuel Caruana, (“The Kid” who appears throughout the movie), delivers Stump's hand in a plastic bag to Wentz's house. After finding the hand, Wentz releases a hawk that symbolizes "The Phoenix." The other members are also kidnapped: Hurley in a parking lot, Trohman at a gas station, and Wentz on a rooftop. The Defenders of The Faith are taken by a group of women called the "Vixens".  Young Volcanoes The Vixens bring Wentz, Hurley, and Trohman to a dinner table, blindfolded, at which Stump is already seated, fully aware of what is happening. They are strapped to chairs and hooked to intravenous drips. They are served blood wine, hookahs and sniffable coloured powder resembling cocaine. The women then serve them cobbler, fruit, and Stump's organs. The drugs make them believe they are dancing with their captors and naked women wearing bloody animal masks, yet they are left still bound to their chairs. The briefcase is delivered to a vehicle with the license plate "RATATAT".  Alone Together Stump, Wentz, Hurley, and Trohman are bound and set up to be tormented in separate rooms in an abandoned building. Stump is hooked to machines in a chapel, Wentz surrounded by paparazzi-like mannequins, Trohman subjected to angry children throwing food and Hurley forced to listen to loud music and watch television. Wentz seduces one of his captors, then kills her with a hook she was wearing. He runs down the corridors of the building looking for the others while escaping the Vixens. Wentz frees "The Herald" (Big Sean) and while attempting to rescue Stump, attaches the hook to where his hand was. Wentz fails to free him as the women shoot him with a tranquilizing dart. In the meantime, the device Stump is hooked to slowly, with a gauge that says "Evil-Meter", turns him more and more evil.  The band is handcuffed, blindfolded, and forced into a van.  My Songs Know What You Did In The Dark (Light Em Up) "The Problem Solver" (2 Chainz), with assistance from Vixens, burns and destroys various Fall Out Boy merchandise. The video ends by showing the tied up and bound "Defenders" in the back of a van.  The Mighty Fall The van "The Defenders" are trapped in is set on fire, but they are unbound by Stump's hook and escape in time. They are welcomed to a gang of children, armed with various weapons. The band flees to the woods, with the kids on their tail. All but Stump are eventually caught and beaten by the children. Stump escapes to an open patch of the forest. The leader of the children is Samuel Caruana, who plays a boombox, the sound from which transforms Stump to his evil, yellow-eyed state. The Herald (Big Sean) saves Stump and "The Defenders" by killing the boy, yet is beaten, and then killed by the Vixens. The remaining children cease their violence and flee, while the band members they have beaten all collapse in the woods.  Just One Yesterday The band wakes up the next morning in the forest, separated and barely aware of what happened the night before. While desperately looking for help and civilization, they each encounter the same snake from the previous Young Volcanoes video, which triggers their memories. Stump hitches a ride from a woman driving a 1968 Dodge D100 (Foxes) who finds and picks up the rest of the Defenders. She pulls up to an abandoned hospital, where it is revealed that she, "The Death Adder", is also evil. Her eyes turn pure black, and she then plays her truck's radio, (the same music in the boy's boom box) sending Stump back into his trance. Wentz, Hurley and Trohman flee into the hospital as Stump preys on them.  Where Did The Party Go Wentz, Hurley and Trohman split up and hide in different parts of the hospital as Stump searches for them. Stump hallucinates, seeing zombie nurses and patients partying, yet still continues his hunt. Wentz tries to fix a phone to dial for help, Hurley treats his wounds, and Trohman hides in a closet. Eventually, Stump tracks down Trohman and strangles him to death with an extension cord. As Wentz and Hurley come upon the murder, Stump then exits his trance, horrified at what he has done.  Death Valley Trohman, on his way to heaven, is stopped by the deceased kid, Samuel Caruana, and is sent to hell instead.  Stump is detained by law enforcement and his hook is removed for booking and detainment. Wentz and Hurley are brought in for questioning. Trohman is checked in to the nightclub of hell, where he meets "The Prince of Darkness" (Tommy Lee) and parties with him and the other souls there. After receiving a note with an address, Wentz and Hurley meet up with a secret informer from the inside, who explains who kidnapped them and their agenda. She presents Wentz with a bass-neck sword and Hurley with a drum crossbow. Hurley has a substantially long make out scene with the woman before they head off to the clan's headquarters. Trohman is abruptly taken up a flight of stairs by two mysterious women, while Stump is released by police to the Vixens.  It is revealed the Vixens are cult of music-hating women whose goal is to "Silence the Noise."  Rat-a-Tat "The Head Bitch in Charge" (Courtney Love) rallies her fellow cult members to destroy various instruments while Wentz and Hurley infiltrate the building in search of Stump and the briefcase. Two of the Vixens drag Stump to a room and strap him down, subjecting him to videos that further his hypnosis to a fully evil state. He is taken to The Head Bitch, who tests his music-hating abilities, which he successfully passes by destroying instruments. Wentz and Hurley finally find Stump, the leader of the cult, and the briefcase. Wentz escapes with the briefcase but Hurley's throat is sliced by two vixens while covering for Wentz. The scene ends with Stump chasing after Wentz.  Miss Missing You Stump catches up with Wentz in the black and white Miss Missing You, and chases him through a junk yard and a trailer park. After running through and fighting in several homes, they battle head to head outside with people cheering them on. Wentz stabs Stump with his sword, but Stump finishes him off with his hook and then dies from his wounds. The Vixens retrieve the briefcase, while Wentz and Stump lay lifeless in the sand.  Save Rock and Roll Samuel Caruana returns in the elevator unsure if Stump is truly evil or not and sends him to purgatory. His evilness is tested by seeing whether he will murder someone. After refusing to, Stump is taken out of his trance and sent to heaven where he is met by his band mates. They all receive communion and meet "God" (Elton John) who presents them with powerful instruments. After performing in heaven, "God" sends them back to earth to "Save Rock and Roll" and, with their instruments, they transform the cult women back to good. Unfortunately, the briefcase is opened by the evil cult and a demon (that resembles a medieval plague doctor) emerges, who then slays anyone in sight. The movie ends with Fall Out Boy (who are covered in blood) confronting the demon, with Wentz using his power to neutralize the demon and causing its blood to splatter on "God".