Margot is a successful but self-absorbed writer; it is suggested that she has borderline personality disorder. She brings her 11-year-old son Claude to spend a weekend visiting her free-spirited sister Pauline on the eve of her wedding to Malcolm at their home on Long Island, New York.  Margot disapproves of Pauline's choice of fiancé: Malcolm is an unsuccessful musician whom Margot considers "completely unattractive". While in town, Margot will be interviewed in a local bookstore by Dick Koosman, a successful author with whom she is collaborating on a screenplay. Dick's teenage daughter Maisy also visits the house.  Margot and Pauline have an uneasy relationship. Margot disapproves of Pauline's life-choices — besides marrying Malcolm, she is pregnant, a fact that she has not shared with Malcolm or her pre-teen daughter Ingrid. Pauline, meanwhile, resents Margot for writing and publishing thinly-disguised stories about her life. She is also incensed when Margot shares secrets told to her in confidence, including her pregnancy. Rather than confront each other, Pauline and Margot take out their frustrations on Malcolm and Claude, respectively.  Tensions come to a head twice. Margot's interview goes disastrously wrong when Dick's questions become personal. While Pauline interrogates him about emails he received from one of her 20-year-old students, Malcolm admits he kissed Maisy. Returning to the house, Pauline finds Maisy inside. Although she says nothing, it is obvious to Maisy that Pauline knows the truth. When Dick finds out what happened, he chases and beats Malcolm.  Margot and Pauline get into a heated argument, unleashing years of resentment. Following a climactic moment, the women leave with their children, leaving Malcolm behind. After the car runs off the road due to malfunctioning brakes, Pauline defecates in her skirt and removes her soiled underwear.  The next day, Pauline calls Malcolm, intent on breaking up with him. When he begs for forgiveness, she gives in and takes him back.  Margot decides to stay with her sister and puts Claude on a bus to Vermont so he can live with his father. As the bus pulls away with him, she has a change of heart and chases after it. Taking a seat next to a surprised Claude, Margot catches her breath.