The film is set in New York City in 2008, prior to the Great Recession. Sam Seneca, a soldier who had served in the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, meets Amira Jafari when he visits her uncle, Bassam Jafari, who had served as Sam's Iraqi translator. Bassam and Sam have a special bond due to their time together in the war.   Initially Amira does not trust him because he was an American soldier and her brother was killed by a bomb from American troops in the war. After getting fired from his job as a security guard for punishing a group of rude people, Sam's cousin, Charlie Seneca, asks Sam to help him with illegal hedge funds unbeknownst to Sam at the time. Amira is staying with her uncle Bassam since her father died.   She sells bootlegged films on the street corner but is forced to flee after getting busted. Bassam calls Sam to inform him of what happened with Amira and asks him to let Amira stay with him. Sam agrees and goes to Amira and Bassam's apartment to get Amira. Amira tells Sam that she cannot go back to Iraq because it became too dangerous for her after her family started helping American soldiers.   Bassam tried to claim her as a dependent but they had trouble with the courts. Therefore, if Amira was arrested, she would be deported to Iraq as an illegal immigrant. Although reluctant at first Amira eventually agrees to go and stay with Sam. Sam and Amira begin spending time together with both learning to enjoy the company of the other and slowly beginning to fall in love.  While at a gathering with Charlie and his friends from work, Sam learns from one of Charlie's friends that Charlie's hedge funds that he has been helping Charlie with may be illegal. He confronts Charlie over it but Charlie denies this is the case. Back at Sam's apartment, Sam and Amira share a bed and Amira reveals that she read Sam's notebook of jokes that he had written when Sam hoped to become a stand up comedian but didn't do so well.   After an exchange of words the two kiss, but do not become too intimate. The next day at Charlie's invitation, Sam and Amira attend a party Charlie is having. While at the party Sam only becomes more suspicious of Charlie's hedge funds. Amira meanwhile faces certain degrees of racism, particularly from Sam's Uncle Nick Seneca, who tells Sam that he was in 4 World Trade Center when the September 11 attacks occurred and watched three of his friends die when the Twin Towers were hit with planes.  Not wanting to be involved in Charlie's hedge funds and displeased with the party and guests Sam decides to leave. Charlie tries to stop him which results in a brief scuffle between the two cousins. Amira attempts to intervene but unintentionally hits Charlie's pregnant wife Claire Seneca in the commotion.   Sam and Amira leave the party and head back to Sam's apartment. After sharing a moment of passion, Sam and Amira have sex. The next morning, two police officers arrive and arrest Amira saying that she's being charged with assaulting Claire. Bassam arrives at the police station where Sam is already waiting.   One of the police officers involved in the arrest informs Sam and Bassam that it was revealed that Amira is an illegal immigrant and will be released on bail tomorrow and will be deported back to Iraq the day after. Sam meets with Charlie later where Sam tells him that Amira is being deported. Although Charlie says that he'll have Claire drop the charges Sam tells him it's too late and again asks Charlie about his hedge funds.  Charlie comes clean and confirms that they are illegal but that he's rigged the system so that no one would ever find out about it. Later that night, Amira calls Sam from jail and confesses her love for him and asks to spend one last day together with him.   The next day, Sam comes over to Bassam and Amira's apartment where Bassam says that he is going back to Iraq with Amira to look after her despite Amira's protests. Bassam asks Sam to leave but Amira firmly states that she's spending her last day with Sam.   The two go out and enjoy an entire day of passion. At the end of the day Amira asks Sam to try his luck at stand up comedy  for her. He does so and has good success. On stage Sam confesses his love for Amira and asks her in Arabic to run away together with him. Amira agrees and asks where but Sam says that he doesn't know and doesn't care. The next day, without Sam's help Charlie's hedge funds don't go through and Sam and Amira leave a note for Bassam.   Sam and Amira tell Bassam that they are leaving New York City to be together and avoid Amira's deportation and that they will be in touch as soon as they settle down somewhere else. Bassam smiles happily understanding Sam and Amira's love and knowing that he and Amira will not have to go back to Iraq. Sam and Amira are then seen leaving New York City looking forward to a bright future together.