On the fictional Greek island of Kalokairi, bride-to-be Sophie Sheridan reveals to her bridesmaids that she has secretly invited three men to her wedding without telling her mother, Donna. They are the men with whom her mother had sex during the 25-day period coinciding with Sophie's conception: Irish-American architect Sam Carmichael, Swedish travel writer Bill Anderson, and British banker Harry Bright. She hopes that her father will give her away and believes that after she spends time with them, she will know which is her father.  That day, the three men arrive on Kalokairi. Sophie does not reveal that she believes that one of them is her father, but does explain that it was she who sent the wedding invitations, not Donna. She hides them in Donna's goat house, and they hesitantly agree not to reveal themselves yet, as it's a surprise.   As Donna is working on the goat house, she spies on them- Dumbfounded to find herself facing her former lovers, she demands that they leave. Donna confides in her old friends Tanya and Rosie that she truly does not know which of the three fathered Sophie.   Sophie finds the men aboard Bill's sailboat, and they sail around Kalokairi, telling stories of Donna's carefree youth. She attempts to tell her fiancé Sky about her ploy, but loses her nerve.  At Sophie's bachelorette party, Donna is distressed by the presence of the three men, but Rosie and Tanya assure her that they will take care of them. Sophie decides to talk with each of the men alone, but leaves Sam and Harry questioning their trip. She learns from Bill that Donna received the money for her villa from his great-aunt Sofia.   As a result, Sophie comes to believe that Bill is her father. So, she asks him to give her away but keep their secret until the wedding. Sophie's happiness is short-lived, as Sam and Harry each pull her aside to tell her that they are her father and that they will give her away.   In the morning, Donna attempts to comfort Sophie and offers to cancel the wedding; Sophie angrily reacts to this, saying she only wants to avoid her mother's mistakes. Sam attempts to discuss the wedding with Donna, and both of them realize they still have feelings for each other.  Sophie admits her actions to Sky and asks for his help, but he reacts angrily to her deception. As she prepares for the wedding, Donna admits to her that her mother disowned her after she got pregnant, and that she could not be more proud of having her. Donna promises to give Sophie away.   As the bridal party and guests walk to the chapel, Sam intercepts Donna, who reveals the pain she felt over losing him. At the wedding, Sam reveals that he had broken off his engagement, but returned to find Donna had gone off with another man (Bill).   The three men agree with Sophie that they do not want the paternity confirmed, each agreeing to be one-third of a father for Sophie. Knowing what both of them want, Sophie suggests to Sky that they postpone their wedding and travel the world. Sam proposes to Donna, revealing that he is now divorced and has loved her all this time, which she happily accepts, and they marry on the spot.