Charlie (Bobby Kennedy) is an American hard-partying slacker and recent college graduate whose wealthy parents (Alec Baldwin and Catherine Mary Stewart) cut him off with a cheque for $5000 and an ultimatum to get a job. Instead, eager to explore Europe, he buys a plane ticket to Italy. On the plane, he meets the self-proclaimed "King" of Bologna, Lele (Lele Gabellone), who tells him he is welcome to stay with him, also making a strong impression by joining the mile high club with the woman he just met, Alessia ().  Just out of the airport in Rome, Charlie is accosted and robbed by three Neapolitan mafia men: Vito (Vito Facciolla),  Jaroslav (), and "Il Nero" (). Charlie manages to get away from them, fleeing in their pickup truck. Not knowing what else to do (he speaks no Italian and has nowhere to go), he heads to Bologna to take the "King" up on his offer.  Lele takes Charlie under his wing and introduces him to his eccentric group of friends, like Badoo (), a scraggly "gutter punk" (punkabbestia), and "Il Pisa" (), an insatiable whoremonger. Charlie moves in and picks up where he left off in the US, living each day as if it were his last. Lele teaches Charlie the subtle techniques of Italian seduction, throws all-night parties, and generally causes chaos. Charlie is a good student and meets and charms two lovely ladies, the dangerously beautiful Valentina (Alessandra Mastronardi) and all-American beauty Vicky (Eva Amurri).  thumb|140px|Giancarlo Giannini in 2000  Thanks to Charlie's swaggering immaturity and some cultural misunderstanding, he incurs the wrath of mafiosi Don Ferracane (Giancarlo Giannini), Valentina's father, and Don Farina (Ernesto Mahieux) the boss of the three men Charlie clashed with in Rome. It turns out the van Charlie escaped in had something important belonging to the ill-tempered Don Farina, who, exasperated with his underboss Vito, threatens to kill him unless he produces results. Vito threatens Jaroslav and Il Nero in turn and the trio finally track Charlie to Bologna...