In 2021, Jake Doyle recounts to his daughter, Annie, his Christmas of 1989 when all he wanted was a Nintendo Entertainment System.  Timothy Keane, the richest kid in Jake's grade, is the only kid in town with a Nintendo and all the latest accessories. Every day, Jake and his friends gather with the rest of the school outside of Timmy's house, where he chooses ten kids to play with him in his basement. Tired of pandering to Timmy for access to the coveted Nintendo, Jake dreams of getting his own for Christmas. He requests it from his distracted schoolteacher mom, Kathy, and his DIY-obsessed dad, John, only to be denied on the basis that video games are bad for his brain and that he should play outside more. Jake's desire for a Nintendo intensifies after Timmy angrily destroys his TV and seriously injures his family's dog after losing a game.  Hearing that the first prize of a Scout fundraiser for selling the most Christmas wreaths will be a Nintendo, Jake and his friends compete to win the system. Jake's sister Lizzy has her own desired toy, a Cabbage Patch Kids doll, and in exchange for tips on selling wreaths, Jake agrees to drop hints on her behalf. After finding that all Cabbage Patch Kids are sold out, Jake accompanies John to a back alley deal to buy a doll. Jake wins the fundraiser, only to discover that the prize was swapped out to an encyclopedia set after Timmy's father convinced the community to ban video games.  Jake and his friends decide to take matters into their own hands, selling baseball cards (including a rare Bill Ripken card) to pool their money and buy a system to share. Without a ride to the mall, they concoct an elaborate plan to sneak away to the mall and make their purchase during a school trip. Evan Olsen creates a distraction while Jake infiltrates the mall, evading his friends' parents who are protesting video games in front of the game store and successfully buying the Nintendo. Once he returns, though, he trips, dropping the Nintendo which is crushed by the school bus as it drives away. The Cabbage Patch dealer from earlier helps Jake return to his field trip and advises him to focus less on presents and more on the spirit of giving.  Christmas Day comes, and Jake does not receive a Nintendo. Instead, John surprises Jake with a backyard tree fort he made himself. Although Jake never got a Nintendo for Christmas, in retrospect he determined that the tree fort and his father's love for him was a better gift.  In the present, Jake tells his daughter he eventually bought his own Nintendo after working all summer to earn one. He then shows her the tree fort, which remains standing, and reminisces about all the good memories and adventures he gained from his father's gift. The two join the rest of Jake's family for dinner, aside from John who has passed away, yet they all still save an empty seat for him at the dinner table.