In 1991, following the critical and commercial failure of her biography of Estée Lauder, author Lee Israel struggles with financial troubles, writer's block, and alcoholism. Although she hopes to write a biography of comedian Fanny Brice, her agent, Marjorie, sharply rejects the idea and explains that Lee, with her difficult personality, is responsible for her own career slump.  With Marjorie unable to secure her an advance for a new book, regardless of subject matter, Lee resorts to selling her possessions to cover living expenses. She sells a personal letter she received long ago from Katharine Hepburn to a used bookstore merchant and autograph dealer named Anna. Lee begins spending time with old acquaintance Jack Hock.  Visiting a Manhattan library's special collections department to research Fanny Brice, Lee discovers two letters typewritten by Brice. She removes one of them from the building and shows it to Anna. Anna makes Lee an offer that is lower than what she was expecting due to the letter's bland content. Lee returns home and uses a typewriter to add a postscript to the letter. Lee returns to Anna's store, where Anna, amused by what "Fanny Brice" wrote "several decades ago," offers Lee $350.  Lee then starts forging and selling letters "by" deceased celebrities, incorporating intimate details to command high prices. Anna, a fan of Lee's biographies, tries to initiate a romantic relationship, but may have another motive as on their dinner date she gives Lee a short story she has written hoping for Lee to critique it. Moments after they leave the restaurant, the socially phobic Lee appears to rebuff Anna.  In some of Lee's letters, she has Noël Coward make references to presumably much-younger men with whom he enjoys socializing. A used book dealer named Paul buys one of them from Lee and then sends it to a friend of his who knew Coward, who died less than 20 years ago. Coward's friend becomes suspicious, though the letter does not refer to a sexual act or a man's anatomy. Paul raises an alarm that leads to Lee's customers blacklisting her. Unable to sell more forgeries, she has Jack sell the letters on her behalf. His customers do not know he has a connection to Lee. She also starts stealing authentic letters from libraries and archives for Jack to sell, replacing them with forged duplicates. While Lee is out of town committing one such theft, her cat dies under Jack's care. She ends their friendship, but continues their partnership out of necessity.  The FBI arrests Jack while he is attempting a sale. He cooperates with them, resulting in Lee being served with a court summons. She retains a lawyer, who advises her to show contrition by getting a job, doing community service, and joining Alcoholics Anonymous. In court, Lee says she enjoyed creating the forgeries, but that her actions were ultimately not worth it because she lost her cat and friend. The judge sentences Lee to five years' probation and six months' house arrest.  During her house arrest, Lee skips her AA meeting to meet with Jack, who is dying of AIDS, at a bar. They reconcile, and Jack grants Lee permission to write a memoir about their escapades. Sometime later, while Lee is passing a bookstore, she sees a Dorothy Parker letter she forged that is now on sale for $1,900. She writes the store owner a sarcastic note from the deceased Parker revealing that the letter is a fake. After reading the note, the owner goes to retrieve the letter, but then decides to keep it on display.