In the summer of 1957, Italian entrepreneur Enzo Ferrari prepares his racing team for the Mille Miglia, an open road, endurance-based race lasting one thousand miles. Grappling with both domestic and professional crises, Ferrari and his estranged wife, Laura, grieve for their only son, Dino, who died a year prior. While he has kept Laura from learning of his infidelities, Ferrari’s mistress, Lina Lardi, pressures him to grant their illegitimate son, Piero, the Ferrari name as his confirmation nears.   Meanwhile, in the wake of the groundbreaking development of the Formula One car, Ferrari’s manufacturing company is suffering from severe financial hemorrhaging. Faced with no other choice, Ferrari must merge with a sister company to continue doing business. However, Laura owns half of Ferrari's shares, and in order to move forward on deals, Enzo must convince Laura to sign the entirety of the company over to him. A resentful Laura demands a check for 500 thousand dollars, which will bankrupt the company if she cashes it. Laura confirms her suspicions that Enzo has been having an affair after finding where Lina and Piero live in the countryside outside Modena.  Enzo agrees to write the check and trust her to wait.  As the Mille Miglia commences in Brescia, Ferrari encourages his drivers to remain ahead of the competition. During a pit-stop in Rome, Enzo’s newest addition to the team, Alfonso de Portago, refuses to change his tires to stay in the lead; later, he suffers a tire blowout and loses control of the vehicle, which veers off the road, killing de Portago and nine onlookers. Another of Ferrari's drivers, the veteran Taruffi, completes the round trip to Brescia and wins the race. Ferrari is blamed by the media for de Portago's lethal accident, and Laura cashes her check to provide bribe money for journalists. She signs over the full rights to the company, requesting that in return, Enzo refrain from giving Piero the Ferrari name until after she is dead. Enzo agrees, and later brings Piero to his half-brother's grave.