Iris Simpkins, a society columnist for the Daily Telegraph in London, is obsessively in love with her ex-boyfriend, Jasper Bloom; despite the fact that he cheated on her and is currently in a relationship, Jasper has been keeping Iris close under the guise of 'remaining friends'. When he announces his engagement at the company Christmas party, Iris is devastated.  Amanda Woods, owner of a film trailer company in Los Angeles, breaks up with her film composer boyfriend, Ethan, after he cheats on her, citing her emotional unavailability. Coming across Iris's listing of her Surrey cottage on a home swap website, she messages her, and the two agree to switch houses for two weeks starting the next day.  Iris happily settles into Amanda's large house, but Amanda has trouble adjusting to quiet English country life and decides to return home the next day. That night, Iris's brother, Graham, drops by after drinking too much at the local pub, asking to spend the night. Amanda agrees, and after they talk, Graham unexpectedly kisses her on the lips; she suggests they have sex because she does not expect to see him ever again. The next morning, despite having enjoyed their time together, they go their separate ways. However, Amanda decides to stay and continue seeing Graham.  Iris meets Arthur Abbott, Amanda's elderly neighbor, an Oscar-winning screenwriter from the Golden Age of Hollywood. Over dinner, Iris reveals her troubles with Jasper, and Arthur gives her a long list of classic films with strong female characters such as The Lady Eve, so she can become "the leading lady of her own life." She returns his kindness by helping him prepare for a Writers Guild of America gala in his honor. Meanwhile, Iris befriends Miles, a colleague of Ethan's who is dating aspiring actress Maggie. After he catches Maggie with another man, Iris and Miles bond over their similar relationship troubles, and they have dinner together on Christmas Eve.  Amanda and Graham become closer, but she believes she is one of many women in his life. Surprising him one evening at his house, she discovers he is a widower with two young daughters, Sophie and Olivia. He reveals that he never tells new romantic partners about his daughters, because compartmentalizing his life helps him deal with the overwhelming responsibility of being a single working father, and he does not want to bring a woman into the girls' lives unless the relationship definitely has a future.  On the day of the gala, Maggie asks Miles to take her back, but he refuses. Jasper surprises Iris by showing up at Amanda's wanting to reignite their romance, but when he reveals he is still engaged, she kicks him out. At the gala, Arthur gives a rousing speech, and Miles asks Iris out on a date for New Year's Eve. She tells him that she will be returning to England soon. Miles admits he's never been to England, so he asks if he could accompany her home for New Year's and she happily accepts, and they share a kiss.   Graham tells Amanda he has fallen in love with her, and while she says she does not return the sentiment, they pessimistically agree to try to make a long-distance relationship work. While heading to the airport, Amanda breaks down crying for the first time in years, and runs back to the cottage to find Graham similarly in tears; they decide to spend New Year's Eve together with his daughters.  On New Year's Eve, Iris, Amanda, Miles, Graham, Sophie and Olivia all happily celebrate together at Graham's house.