Mac and Kelly Radner are expecting their second child, and prepare to sell their home to the Baiers family; the Radners' realtor reminds them that the house is in escrow for 30 days. Mac's friend Jimmy and his wife Paula are also expecting a baby. College freshman Shelby meets fellow freshmen Beth and Nora. Learning that sororities are not allowed to host parties, and disgusted by sexist and predatory frat parties, the trio create a new sorority, Kappa Nu, to throw their own parties.  Teddy Sanders hosts poker night with his former frat brothers. Pete has become a successful architect and come out of the closet, Scoonie has launched his own mobile app, and Garf is a rookie cop since graduating, but Teddy now has a criminal record and cannot find a worthwhile job.  The friends help Pete's boyfriend Darren propose, leading Pete to ask Teddy to move out. Distraught, Teddy runs to the old frat house, next door to the Radners. He meets Shelby, Beth, and Nora, the girls hoping to rent the house for Kappa Nu but unable to afford it. Finding an opportunity to be valued, Teddy offers to help them throw parties, earning enough donations and new members to pay rent.  Fearing that the sorority will scare off the Baiers, Mac and Kelly ask Shelby to temporarily refrain from partying, but she refuses. The Radners go to Dean Gladstone, who cannot control an independent sorority, and Shelby's father, who also fails to help, leading Kappa Nu to prank the Radners. Mac, Kelly, Jimmy, and Paula retaliate, infesting the sorority house with bed bugs, forcing the girls to evacuate and pay for fumigation tenting, just in time for the Baiers' visit. Teddy argues with Pete about the state of his life and moves into the sorority.  Low on funds to pay rent, the girls plan to sell marijuana at their 'tailgate party', eliminating the competition by getting all other dealers arrested. When Teddy objects, the girls kick him out, and he joins the Radners to take down Kappa Nu. They infiltrate the party, and Teddy distracts the girls while Mac steals their marijuana. Realizing Teddy's lack of direction in life, Mac and Kelly let him stay with them. The girls switch Mac and Kelly's cell phone numbers with their own and send text messages tricking Mac into flying to Sydney, Australia. Returning home, the Radners find Kappa Nu has robbed and vandalized their house, and the Baiers threaten to pull out from the sale unless the sorority is kicked out.  The sorority receives an eviction notice, and Shelby reluctantly organizes a sexually gratuitous frat-style party to raise money. As Mac and Kelly wait to call the police, Jimmy and Paula sneak into the party, while Teddy is unable to shut off the sorority's power. Shelby steals Mac and Kelly's phones and locks Mac and Teddy in the garage, but they break out using airbags. Overhearing Beth and Nora confront Shelby for compromising their original goals, Kelly encourages the girls not to give up on themselves. Paula goes into labor, and Teddy reconciles with Pete and Darren, happily agreeing to serve as their best man. The sorority enjoys a more empowering party for themselves and discover a crowd of girls from other sororities wanting to join Kappa Nu. With an overflow of money and new members, the sorority is able to keep their home, and the Radners agree to rent their house to Kappa Nu as well, earning them a bigger cashflow than selling the house.  Three months later, Teddy prepares Pete to walk down the aisle. Teddy has become a wedding planner for gay couples, utilizing his party-planning experience. Mac and Kelly have moved into their new home, with no close neighbors, and realized they have been good parents all along. They bring home their new baby, Mildred, to meet Jimmy and Paula with their new son, Jimmy Jr.