In 2022, Billy Cranston calls in the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers to fight a robotic version of Rita Repulsa and her Putties. However, Robo-Rita vaporizes Trini Kwan and flees to plan her revenge. Billy and Zack Taylor are forced to tell Trini's now-orphaned daughter Minh about her fate.  One year later, Zack has become the guardian of Minh. They go to meet the other Rangers at Trini's grave to mark the anniversary of her death but come upon an ambush by Robo-Rita, Robo-Snizzard, and Robo-Minotaur. Robo-Snizzard captures Jason Lee Scott, Tommy Oliver, and Kimberly Hart and imprisons them in a machine. Minh reacts badly when Zack and Billy don't want her involved in the recovery mission and blames Billy for Trini's death.  A flashback revealed that Billy built a new Command Center secretly under his company Cranston Tech. He works with Alpha 8 to attempt to revive his former mentor Zordon by collecting particles from the Z-Wave. However, they end up with the evil purged from Rita Repulsa's original body which possesses Alpha 8 and reshapes it into a new body called Robo-Rita.   Alpha 9 initiates the Bandora Protocol, alerting all Ranger teams throughout the universe, as Putties attack all of Earth. Former Rangers Kat Hillard and Rocky DeSantos teleport to the Command Center, being given proxy Power Coins so they can again morph. As they battle, Alpha overhears Minotaur tout his ability to track morphed Rangers and alerts Rangers worldwide to power down. Meanwhile, Minh unsuccessfully attempts to use Trini's Power Morpher to battle Putties at the juice bar and is overwhelmed until Zack and Rocky teleport in. Upon their return to the Command Center, Zack has a heart-to-heart talk with Minh about what it means to be a Power Ranger.  At a junkyard, Billy, Rocky, and Kat morph to lure out Robo-Snizzard and Robo-Minotaur, then trap them on a giant electromagnet. Using Stealth Tech Projectors, the Rangers infiltrate Rita's Moon Palace and discover that several more Rangers have been captured and frozen in Robo-Rita's machine. Minh takes one of the Stealth Tech Projectors to sneak past Alpha and commandeers Billy's RADBUG. However, she is captured at the junkyard by Robo-Rita.  Billy deduces that Robo-Rita is constructing a time portal using the power of the captured Rangers to contact her past self, hoping to kill the Power Rangers before Zordon can recruit them. Robo-Rita arrives with Robo-Snizzard, Robo-Minotaur, and a captured Minh in tow. Robo-Rita attempts to kill Billy, but Minh jumps in front of the blast. The other Rangers fear her dead, but this good deed bonds the morpher to Minh. Kat, Rocky, and Zack battle and destroy Robo-Minotaur, while Billy and Minh form the Megazord to battle an enlarged Robo-Snizzard. After Robo-Snizzard is destroyed, the Rangers return to the Moon Palace where Minh and Zack finally destroy Robo-Rita once and for all.  Back on Earth, former Rangers Adam Park and Aisha Campbell prepare to take the newly freed Rangers (including Jason, Kimberly, and Tommy) to the planet Aquitar to be fully healed. Billy, Zack, and Minh celebrate their victory at the Juice Bar. After Billy notes that it still might be possible to bring back Zordon one day, he and Zack tell Minh about their past adventures.