Imogene Duncan (Kristen Wiig) was once a promising playwright who now works in a low-paying magazine job in New York City. After her affluent boyfriend leaves her and she is fired from her magazine gig, she stages a suicide attempt in an effort to get her ex's attention but is accidentally discovered by her friend Dara. Held in the hospital on a 5150 (involuntary psychiatric hold), she is eventually released into the care of her estranged mother (Annette Bening), who takes Imogene to her childhood home in New Jersey.  Shortly after returning, she hears a conversation between her mother and her new boyfriend, George Bousche, and learns that her father never died, but instead left the family to pursue a PhD. Finding out her father wrote a book, she goes to the local library and steals it. Reading on the back cover that he lives in New York City, she convinces her mother's boarder, Lee (Darren Criss), to take her there. However, she is forced to return after she is barred access to her apartment and her friend, Dara, refuses to let her stay in her home.  To pay Lee back for driving her, Imogene goes to see him perform in his Backstreet Boys tribute band. Afterwards they talk about her failed career as a playwright. Years ago, after she won a prestigious grant, Imogene failed to write an actual play and now believes she cannot write. Lee accidentally discovered her old plays while living in her room and believes she is talented and should attempt to write again. They sleep together and the following morning she, Lee and her brother, Ralph, head back to the city for Dara's book launch party.  The launch goes poorly for Imogene, as no one is particularly happy to see her. Her brother Ralph is nearly arrested and is brought to the party by the police. After they leave, Ralph takes them to their father's house where Ralph reveals that he knew he was alive the entire time. Imogene and Ralph have dinner with their wealthy father and his new wife where he expresses no remorse for leaving them.  When their father offers Imogene money to help fix her life, she leaves him and returns home to her mother. After they discuss her father, an assassin arrives looking for Bousche and threatens to kill them all. He is prevented from doing so by Imogene, who dons her brother's human exo-skeleton suit and attacks him.  Ultimately Imogene writes a play based on her experiences called Exo-life starring Julia Stiles, which receives a standing ovation.