The film begins with an overview of the career of professional wrestler Jake Roberts, intercut with interviews from other professional wrestlers discussing his career. Starting from his successful career working as a top performer for the World Wrestling Federation in the 1980s (including performing at WrestleMania III in front of over 90,000 attendees), Roberts suffered from alcoholism and personal issues that caused his popularity and career to decline. At an independent wrestling show in 2008 (attended by 700 people), Jake is presumably drunk and disorderly during his match, struggling to last 30 seconds and becoming irritable towards the audience. The incident was covered by the online tabloid TMZ.  The film then jumps to August 2012, when professional wrestler Diamond Dallas Page (DDP, whom Roberts had mentored in the 1990s) travels to visit Roberts at his home in Gainesville, Texas. Roberts is out of shape, struggling with alcoholism, and reveals that he had used crack cocaine a month prior. In October of that year, at DDP's behest, Roberts moves into DDP's house in Atlanta (which he calls "the Accountability Crib"), where he starts a rehabilitation program led by DDP. Over the course of the program, there are several instances of relapse, but Roberts improves his physical health, develops a better relationship with his estranged family, and gradually breaks his alcoholism. Several months into the program, Roberts requires shoulder surgery to treat his shoulder impingement syndrome, and as he has no health insurance, they decide to raise the money needed through crowdfunding. They soon reach their goal of $9,200 within two days on Indiegogo. Fifteen weeks into Roberts' program, professional wrestler Scott Hall joins the Accountability Crib, as he had similarly been struggling with addiction and was physically out of shape.  Throughout the program, Roberts stays active by participating in fan meetings, podcasts, and other activities, and he is also inducted into the Cauliflower Alley Club. After 47 weeks, Roberts moves into a house next door to DDP and continues the program. Throughout the documentary, a goal of Roberts is to become healthy enough to compete in the 2014 Royal Rumble, and while he does not compete in the event, Roberts is invited onto a special "Old School" episode of WWE Raw, which was broadcast on January 6, 2014. Additionally, both Hall and Roberts are inducted into the 2014 WWE Hall of Fame, with DDP inducting Roberts. The movie ends with a short clip of DDP, Hall, and Roberts in a wrestling ring discussing their lives and the program and facing off in a lighthearted match as the credits roll.