Director John Woo said in an interview with David Stratton that the film is only 50% factual. Woo decided to alter the story using modern feelings and his own feelings for a more worldly acceptance. According to Woo, historical accuracy was less important than how the audience felt about the battle.  Part I The film is set in China in 208 A.D. towards the end of the Eastern Han dynasty. Cao Cao, the warlord who controls the figurehead Emperor Xian, leads the imperial army on a campaign to eliminate the southern warlords Sun Quan and Liu Bei, whom he denounces as rebels. After the emperor reluctantly approves the campaign, Cao Cao's mighty army swiftly conquers Jing Province. Cao Cao and Liu Bei's forces clash at the Battle of Changban. During the battle, Liu Bei's sworn brothers Guan Yu and Zhang Fei lead their men to protect the retreating civilians and hold off Cao Cao's cavalry. Meanwhile, Zhao Yun, one of Liu Bei's warriors, fights bravely to save his lord's family but only succeeds in rescuing Liu Bei's infant son.  Following the battle, Liu Bei's adviser, Zhuge Liang, goes on a diplomatic mission to Jiangdong to form an alliance between his lord and Sun Quan against Cao Cao. Sun Quan is initially in a dilemma on whether to surrender or fight back, but ultimately makes up his mind to go to war with Cao Cao after listening to Zhuge Liang and going on a tiger hunt with Zhou Yu, the frontline commander of his forces, and his sister, Sun Shangxiang. Meanwhile, Cai Mao and Zhang Yun, two naval commanders from Jing Province, pledge allegiance to Cao Cao, who puts them in command of his massive fleet.  After the hasty formation of the Sun–Liu alliance, the forces of Liu Bei and Sun Quan call for a meeting to formulate a plan to counter Cao Cao's army, which is rapidly advancing towards their base at Red Cliff via land and water routes. Sun Shangxiang leads some riders to lure Cao Cao's vanguard force into the allies' Bagua Formation and defeat the enemy after a fierce battle. Unfazed by the loss of a small vanguard force, Cao Cao leads the bulk of his forces to the riverbank directly across Red Cliff and make camp there. While the allies throw a banquet to celebrate their victory, Zhuge Liang sends Sun Shangxiang on a mission to spy on Cao Cao's camp, and they maintain contact by sending messages via a pigeon.  Part II Sun Shangxiang, who has infiltrated Cao Cao's camp, secretly notes down its details and sends them via a pigeon to Zhuge Liang. Meanwhile, Cao Cao stages cuju games to boost his troops' morale. Sun Shangxiang befriends Sun Shucai, a soldier highly skilled at cuju. Soon after, Cao Cao's army is affected by a plague of typhoid fever that kills some soldiers. Cao Cao orders the corpses to be sent on floating rafts to the allies' camp in the hope of spreading the plague to his enemies. The allied army's morale is affected when some unsuspecting soldiers let the plague in. Eventually, a disheartened Liu Bei leaves with his forces while Zhuge Liang stays behind to assist Sun Quan. Cao Cao is overjoyed when he hears that the alliance has collapsed. At the same time, Cai Mao and Zhang Yun propose a new tactic of interlocking the battleships with iron beams to minimise rocking when sailing on the river and reduce the chances of the troops falling seasick.  right|thumb|Sun Quan's forces look on as Liu Bei leaves the alliance. From right to left: Zhou Yu (Tony Leung), Sun Quan (Chang Chen), Lu Su (Hou Yong).  Zhou Yu and Zhuge Liang make plans to eliminate Cai Mao and Zhang Yun and produce 100,000 arrows respectively. They agree that whoever fails to complete his mission will be executed under military law. Zhuge Liang's strategy of letting the enemy shoot 20 boats covered in straw brings in over 100,000 arrows from the enemy and makes Cao Cao doubt the loyalty of Cai Mao and Zhang Yun. On the other hand, Cao Cao sends Jiang Gan to persuade Zhou Yu to surrender, but Zhou Yu tricks Jiang Gan into believing that Cai Mao and Zhang Yun are planning to assassinate Cao Cao. Both Zhuge Liang and Zhou Yu's respective plans complement each other when Cao Cao is convinced, despite having earlier doubts about Jiang Gan's report, that Cai Mao and Zhang Yun are planning to assassinate him by deliberately "donating" arrows to the enemy. Cai Mao and Zhang Yun are executed. Cao Cao realises his folly afterwards but it is too late.  Sun Shangxiang returns from Cao Cao's camp with a map of the enemy formation. Zhou Yu and Zhuge Liang decide to attack Cao Cao's navy with fire after predicting that a special climatic condition will soon cause the winds to blow from the southeast – a direction to their advantage. Before the battle, Sun Quan's forces feast on tangyuan to celebrate the Winter Solstice. Meanwhile, Zhou Yu's wife, Xiao Qiao, heads towards Cao Cao's camp alone secretly in the hope of persuading Cao Cao to end the war. She fails to convince Cao Cao and decides to distract him with an elaborate tea ceremony to buy time for her side.  The battle begins when the southeast wind starts blowing in the middle of the night. Sun Quan's forces launch their attack on Cao Cao's navy by ramming smaller boats that are set aflame into the larger enemy battleships. On the other hand, Liu Bei's forces, whose departure from the alliance turns out to be a ruse, start attacking Cao Cao's forts on land. By dawn, Cao Cao's entire navy has been destroyed. The allies launch another offensive on Cao Cao's ground army in his forts and succeed in breaking through using testudo formation despite suffering heavy casualties. Although Cao Cao is besieged in his main camp, he manages to hold Zhou Yu at sword point after ambushing him with the help of Cao Hong. Xiahou Jun also shows up with Xiao Qiao as a hostage and threatens to kill her if the allies do not surrender. Just then, Zhao Yun manages to reverse the situation by rescuing Xiao Qiao with a surprise attack, while Sun Quan fires an arrow that grazes the top of Cao Cao's head and cuts his topknot loose. Cao Cao is now at the mercy of the allies, but they spare his life and leave. In the final scene, Zhou Yu and Zhuge Liang have a final conversation before the latter walks away into the far distance with the newborn foal Mengmeng.  Abridged version For the non-Asian releases, the film was shortened from 288 minutes to 148 minutes and was released in some countries under the title Battle of Red Cliff. An opening narration in American English provides the historical background, whereas in the Asian release, a more brief description of the context of the political situation appears in scrolling form ten minutes into the film. Notable cuts include the background and motivations behind Zhuge Liang's plan to obtain 100,000 arrows, including the threat to his life, and the early parts of Sun Shangxiang's friendship with Sun Shucai (but the scene where she mourns his death is not cut). The tiger hunting scene is also cut from the non-Asian releases.  The original two-part 288 minute English version was released as a two-disc set on DVD and Blu-ray in the United Kingdom on 5 October 2009, and in the United States and Canada on 23 March 2010.