Jodi Kreyman is a 16-year-old who has been tall for her age since she was three, which has made her insecure her whole life. Students regularly joke about her height. In contrast, Jodi's older sister Harper is of short height and has won multiple beauty pageants. Jack Dunkleman, a life-long friend, frequently asks her out, but she is reluctant, partly because he is much shorter than she is.  Stig Mohlin, a Swedish foreign exchange student, joins Jodi's class, and she is immediately interested in him, along with most girls in the school. However, her bully Kimmy Stitcher, starts showing him around. Dunkleman is distressed to learn that Stig will be staying at his house as the host family. Jodi asks Harper for help getting Stig to notice her, so she and their mother give her a complete makeover.  Kimmy and another bully, Schnipper, prank call Jodi, pretending to be Stig and asking her to homecoming. To Fareeda's frustration, Jodi hides in the bathroom to avoid Kimmy. Stumbling across Stig playing the piano, he encourages her to join him, and they sing the duet "I've Never Been in Love Before" from the musical Guys and Dolls.  Jodi finds her father has organized a tall people club meeting in their house, which she finds upsetting. Stig calls, and at first, thinking it is another prank call, she tells him off, but he invites her to watch a musical. She turns up to Dunkleman's house, and he becomes jealous when he realizes she is there to see Stig. He continually interrupts their evening, but as Stig escorts Jodi home, they kiss. Later, feeling guilty, Stig asks Dunkleman for advice, and he tells him to focus on being with Kimmy. Jodi gets angry at Dunkleman when she learns this.  Meanwhile, another girl—Liz—asks Dunkleman on a date. Schnipper is now interested in Jodi, so he gets Kimmy to ask her to join them for an escape room activity; Jodi ditches a concert with Fareeda to go. In the escape room, they kiss in couples: Jodi and Schnipper, Kimmy and Stig, and Dunkleman and Liz, until Jodi gets frustrated and leaves. Jealous, Stig talks to Jodi and agrees to go on a date to Harper's pageant competition. Harper wins, but Stig does not turn up. At Dunkleman's party, Stig explains that he lost track of time.  Dunkleman rejects Liz when she asks him to the homecoming dance. He gives Jodi platform heels to apologize for being a bad friend. Jodi is sent a video from after she left the party. Stig pretended that Jodi had an unrequited love for him and says he stood her up. Schnipper joined the conversation and a fistfight ensued, leaving Dunkleman with a black eye.  At the homecoming dance, Kimmy and Stig are crowned Homecoming Queen and King, but he breaks up with her. Jodi arrives in the high heels Dunkleman gave her and makes a speech expressing newfound confidence in herself. Stig asks Jodi out, but she rejects him. She talks to Dunkleman: he finally reveals why he always carries a milk crate: he stands on it and leans in to kiss her.