A woman returns home from grocery shopping, and has her throat slit by a masked serial killer known as "Bonesaw". Elsewhere, a man named Lee wakes up in Bonesaw's warehouse, and is informed via closed-circuit televisions and the building's sound system that he must win his freedom by surviving a series of intellectual and physical challenges; an ankle monitor that is capable of delivering electric shocks is used to ensure Lee's compliance.  Lee's first test involves two fellow captives, one of whom can only lie, while the other can only tell the truth. The two men are forced to have sex in front of Lee, who uses his one allotted question to correctly discern the identities of the duo. While Lee moves on to the next challenge, Bonesaw shoots one of the men and knocks the other out while declaring, "I still need you."  Pat Roberts, a self-proclaimed psychic, calls the Wannell County Police Station to report his precognitive flashes of Bonesaw's murders, but his visions are dismissed by the skeptical Detective Brown.  Bonesaw's next game involves a caged man who will be released if Lee can solve at least two out of three brain teasers. Lee correctly answers only  a single question, but is given a second chance to free the hostage, one that involves bringing the man to orgasm in less than fifteen minutes. Lee is unable to make the man ejaculate in time, and is forced to leave him behind as the room fills with toxic gas.  Pat Roberts meets with Detective Brown in person, and attempts to convince him to investigate an address that he claims is Bonesaw's hideout. Brown instead kicks Roberts out, and has sex with another detective named Larson. Afterward, Larson suggests that Brown look into the address that Roberts provided, explaining that Roberts's "gift" once helped the LAPD close a homicide case.  For his final challenge, Lee must make two men, both of whom are handcuffed to a pole, orgasm in less than twenty minutes, and do it without stepping outside of a circle that has been drawn on the floor. Lee wins the game, and is allowed to leave by Bonesaw, who kills the other two men with a handgun and a circular saw while deadpanning, "I said you'd go scot-free, not them".  Brown and Larson reach the warehouse and shoot Bonesaw, unmasking the figure afterward to reveal that it was actually the surviving hostage from Lee's initial challenge, disoriented, gagged, and framed by the real Bonesaw. As Brown laments that he should have listened to Patrick Roberts earlier, a puzzled Larson mentions that Roberts is not a man, but a woman (the one murdered in the intro) whose full given name is Patricia.  A series of flashbacks reveal that both Bonesaw and the impostor Pat Roberts are really James, an ex-boyfriend of Lee's. James locates, comforts, and takes the oblivious Lee to safety, which spurs Lee into asking that they get back together, a request that a smirking James obliges.