In Chicago, Harry Rawlings and his criminal gang's getaway van is blown up during a police standoff after stealing $2,000,000 from crime boss Jamal Manning. Jamal threatens Veronica, Harry's widow, demanding compensation, needing the money to finance his campaign for alderman of a South Side ward. He is running against Jack Mulligan, the next-in-line of a dynastic family that has held the position for decades. Mulligan doesn't like politics, but is happy to profit from it; his father Tom, the previous alderman, warns him that he will face everlasting shame if he loses to Jamal.  Veronica is given a key to a safety deposit box by Bash, Harry's loyal chauffeur, which contains Harry's notebook with a detailed plan for stealing $5 million from Mulligan's home. She is advised to sell the notebook to Jamal's people, but decides against it.  Veronica decides to carry out the heist, recruiting two of the other widows of Harry's gang, Alice and Linda. Alice has lost her livelihood and is pressured by her mother to become a sugar baby. Linda has lost her store, as her husband secretly gambled away the rent payments. The fourth widow, Amanda, does not join them, as Veronica discovers she has a 4-month-old baby. Alice acquires guns and a getaway van while Linda deciphers Harry's blueprints. Jamal's brother and right-hand man Jatemme attacks several witnesses and kills Bash while looking for Harry's notebook. Eventually, Alice uses a real estate executive, her sugar daddy, to identify the blueprint as the safe room in the Mulligan family mansion which also serves as Jack Mulligan's campaign headquarters.  Linda recruits Belle, her babysitter, to be the group's driver. Veronica visits Amanda and notices Harry's flask in the home, which raises the question of what Harry's involvement with Amanda — and the baby — is. Her suspicion is confirmed when her dog paws vigorously at a closet door, indicating she is very familiar with the person behind it - revealed to be Harry after Veronica storms off without a confrontation. It is revealed that Harry double-crossed his crew by deliberately blowing up their getaway van and is in league with Mulligan to ruin Jamal's campaign. Returning home, Veronica opens the door to her son's room and relives the memory of his death: while on the phone with Harry, he was shot by police officers after being pulled over while driving. Veronica visits the Mulligan mansion under the guise of asking Jack for protection from the Mannings, and is able to case the premises while Belle scans the outdoor security.  Veronica blackmails the CEO of the Mulligans' security company for the safe code, using incriminating photos left in Harry's notebook. The heist begins with Belle creating a disturbance down the street to draw the outside security detail away. Veronica and the others stun the security guard inside and intimidate Tom Mulligan's careperson. Veronica, Linda, and Alice reach the safe and retrieve the money. Tom Mulligan appears from his bedroom, unmasks Veronica and wounds Alice with a gunshot; Linda fatally shoots him.  The women escape, but Jatemme appears, holds Belle at gunpoint and flees in their van with the money; they follow him in a separate car and ram him from behind, causing him to crash and killing him. They retrieve the money, then get Alice to the hospital. Veronica returns alone to their hideout, where Harry arrives to steal the money, needing $1 million of it to keep Mulligan quiet about his faked death. Harry claims that after the death of their son and subsequent disintegration of their marriage, he wanted to start over with Amanda and their child. Harry retrieves the money in the van and turns to shoot Veronicabut Veronica kills him first, then plants on him the gun used to kill Tom Mulligan.  Mulligan wins the position of alderman due to a sympathy vote following his father's murder. Linda reacquires her store, Alice sets up her own business, and Belle moves away. Veronica donates a large sum to rebuild a school library on the condition that it be named after her son Marcus. Outside of a diner, Veronica sees and warmly greets Alice.