Cassie and Lisa have been best friends since first grade. Now as adults, their interests and social lives have changed. Cassie is a fun-loving party animal, while Lisa lives a secluded life away from most social interaction. One day, Cassie convinces Lisa to go out to a party for her 25th birthday week and before leaving they meet Max, who lives a very similar life to Lisa, moving in next door. Max and Lisa seem to be mutually interested.  Cassie and Lisa head to a club, getting into an argument soon after, when some of Cassie's acquaintances want to head to other parties and Lisa chooses to leave. During the argument, Lisa points out that their friendship has changed, that Cassie is always trying to pretend to be someone else and they realize that they now have little in common. They part ways and later that evening Cassie heads home and passes out in her room.  When Cassie wakes up, she goes to the bathroom hungover, trips and hits her head on the toilet, resulting in her death. She awakens in a room and meets Val, an angel handler who explains that Cassie has been dead for over a year. Before reaching the "Afterlife party in Heaven" she has a list of people she needs to help as a guardian angel. The list includes her best friend Lisa, her father and her mother Sofia. Cassie has 5 days to figure out the best way to help each of them before time runs out, or else she goes to the "below".  Visiting her dad Howie, Cassie sees he's in mourning, not taking good care of himself and leaving his yoga by the wayside. Lisa has thrown herself into her archeology work at the museum. Sophia has a young daughter Morgan she's never met. She must connect with them all but they cannot see nor hear her.  Cassie shadows Lisa the first day. A bakery near their apartment opened the same week Cassie died and she is friends with the owner Emme. When a possible opportunity arises to be part of a dig, Lisa doubts herself. That night, a frustrated Cassie starts humming, causing her to finally be seen.   Apparently, true soulmates are able to be seen. So, Cassie follows her most of the next day, until Lisa finally lets her in. They are enjoying themselves doing a puzzle when Max, the downstairs neighbor Lisa's had a crush on for ages, comes up in conversation. Cassie meddles, getting him to come upstairs and invite her to a Koop music video shoot. The date goes well, Lisa and Max finally admit their feelings and kiss.   Lisa offers to help Cassie with her mother. Driving to her house, she rewords Cassie's questions, and the mother admits her regret. Later, at her dad's, she sees her parents making peace so finally forgives her. Cassie then takes advantage of the bakery's anniversary to connect her dad with Emme. Lisa makes Cassie promise to find her later.  Lisa arranges for all of Cassie's loved ones to gather to release wish lanterns for her. Howard begins to sing 'God Only Knows' and Lisa and Cassie join in. He can finally see her, they hug and she says she's no longer afraid before saying goodbye to him and Lisa.  Cassie, even though she broke a few rules, is sent to heaven. The elevator stops on the way to pick up Kooper Keene, who'd just died while volunteering in a war-torn African country. They get off the elevator into paradise together, holding hands.