Dr. R.J. "Roscoe" Stevens is a successful talk-show host, who not only has millions of adoring fans but has discarded his awkward Southern roots, and is engaged to Survivor winner Bianca Kittles.  Bringing Bianca and his 10-year-old son Jamaal to his sleepy Southern hometown for his parents 50th wedding anniversary (to which Roscoe reluctantly agreed to attend), R.J. is determined to prove he is no longer the walking disaster his family used to pick on. In Georgia, he is met by his pickpocketing cousin Reggie, accompanied by his girlfriend Amy; and arrives at the family home to greet his parents, Roscoe Sr. and Mama Jenkins; his brother Otis, the town sheriff; Otis' wife Ruthie and their overgrown kids, Junior and Callie; and Roscoe's rowdy sister Betty. Roscoe's cousin Clyde drops in, reigniting their past competitiveness, and escorting Lucinda, Roscoe's past love interest. Having spent nearly nine years away from his family, Roscoe attempts to impress his family and friends with his newfound wealth and success but fails.  Throughout his stay, Roscoe endures much self-humiliation: he accidentally hits his mother in the head with a softball during a game, is beaten up by Otis and Betty after insulting them, faces constant blackmail by Reggie, inadvertently ruins the family fish fry by getting into a physical fight with Clyde, and is sprayed by a skunk while sleeping. It becomes obvious that he still holds a grudge against his father for showing Clyde preferential treatment when they were younger, while Roscoe Sr. resents his son for changing his name and distancing himself from his family. Bianca does not fit in well with the Jenkins, and Roscoe and Lucinda get reacquainted.  On the Jenkins' anniversary, the whole family gathers for their traditional obstacle course. Roscoe and Clyde aggressively make their way through, hurting themselves and others. When Roscoe begins to help his son over an obstacle, Bianca yells at him to leave Jamaal so he can defeat Clyde and he does, to his parents' shock. Roscoe and Clyde race to the finish line, and Roscoe wins (just as he did 20 years ago). As Bianca cheers, Roscoe berates his family, reminding them that it is all about "the team of me".  The family is angered by Roscoe's arrogant behavior and Jamaal refuses to go near his father, with Roscoe Sr. reprimanding his son for his behavior. Unable to contain his resentment, Roscoe lashes out at his father, saying that although Clyde's father died, Roscoe felt he lost his own father because he always favored Clyde, and chastises him for crediting Clyde's accomplishments while never acknowledging any of Roscoe's success. Stunned by this admission, Roscoe Sr. walks away guiltily, realizing he is the reason Roscoe left all those years ago. Now seeing why Roscoe resented him, Clyde admits he never intended to take Roscoe’s place, and that his competitive nature was his attempt to fit in and be accepted by the family. He also admits that he sees Roscoe as his brother. He tries to shake Roscoe's hand, but Bianca rebuffs him, and Roscoe leaves with Bianca and Jamaal, but not before his mother reminds him that his family still loves him.  Driving to the airport, Bianca proposes not inviting the family to their wedding. Roscoe seems to agree, upsetting Jamaal, who proudly declares himself a Jenkins. Bianca continues to insult the Jenkins clan and Roscoe pretends to agree with her, but deliberately dumps her and her bags at the airport. Roscoe and Jamaal return to the family home with Bianca's Pomeranian Fifi, who had pursued a relationship with the Jenkins’ over-aged Labrador Bucky.  During the anniversary celebration, Clyde cries during his speech for Mama and Papa Jenkins, admitting how much he cares about Roscoe and the family for taking him in after losing his parents. Roscoe then appears, thanking the family for helping him realize his love for them, and congratulates his parents. Roscoe Sr. apologizes to his son for his treatment of him, and Roscoe asks Lucinda to dance. After the celebration, the family watches a video of the celebration on a big-screen TV while Roscoe and Lucinda depart to make love, discovering when they enter the bedroom that the dogs Bucky and Fifi had intercourse, too. During the credits, Roscoe interviews his family on his show, renamed The Roscoe Jenkins Show.