Like most episodes of the original show, Seinfeld: A XXX Parody opens with a stand-up sequence from Gerry (James Deen) about pornography. The film then cuts into a XXX video store, where Gerry and Elania (Kristina Rose) are attempting to purchase porn from a man known as "The Porn Nazi" (Evan Stone). Gerry manages to buy a movie from the guy, but Elania is unsuccessful due to her behavior towards him. At Gerry's apartment, Gerry is watching the film he bought, and he and Elania have sex. In the next scene at the apartment with Gerry and Gorge (Steve Pomerants), Crammer (Eric John) comes in saying he is unable to masturbate to his old porn movies he owns. Being dissatisfied, Crammer decides to make his own porn. When he exits the scene, Gerry complains about a girl who has a crush on him, Regina (Ashlynn Brooke), because she orgasms too easily, and Gorge rants about marrying Suzanne (Natalie Norton) in less than a month, reasoning that "the pope gets more pussy than I do." Gerry suggests Gorge to spice up their love life.  Back at the video store, Elania again tries to obtain a porn video, but the Porn Nazi recognizes her and she fails again. The woman who works next to the man at the counter (London Keyes) is also having problems with him, and she goes in the back room with Elania. The former offers to give Elania the Nazi's secret distributor if she'll make out with her, which the latter accepts. Meanwhile, Crammer is getting food from a picnic table when he happens to stumble upon a porn shoot between Sasha Grey and Sadie West. The camera man mistakenly takes Crammer as the actor who is going to be in the scene, which he joins. Back at Gerry's apartment, Crammer is shooting his own porn with Suzanne and a guy named Buck (Tony DeSergio). The next scene, Gerry and Regina are watching TV at the apartment, and after Regina is turned on by looking at the newscasters, he decides to let her know that he cannot take her orgasms anymore. She leaves, and Noman (J. Walker) enters the room to get the tape Crammer shot so he can deliver it to Gorge.  Noman encounters Regina in the stairwell, picks her up and goes to the store with her. Upon their arrival, the Porn Nazi sees the tape in the hands of Noman, dropping the tape and then running away. Regina starts humping the Porn Nazi and they go into the back room to have sex. Back in the front room, Gerry and Crammer wait in line. Noman and Regina then enter the front room, and Gorge enters with Suzanne. The four all find the video playing on the store's television, causing a four-way argument and the four to exit the store. Elania enters the store and tells the Nazi that he has the list of new releases from his secret distributor. The film ends with another stand-up bit from Gerry about fake boobs, and Sandra (Cassandra Calogera) is up on stage showing Gerry that her boobs are real. He is seen playing with her breasts for the remainder of the movie.