In Livingston, Montana, attorney Laura Wells has been dealing with a disgruntled client, Fuller, for eight months. Unemployed due to a workplace injury that rendered him disabled, he has taken to visiting Laura repeatedly at her office. As Fuller will not listen to her advice, she takes him to another lawyer. After assessing the case, the lawyer tells Fuller exactly what Laura had told him; that while Fuller's company was clearly at fault for his injuries, Fuller can no longer sue the company, because he previously had accepted their initial small settlement. On his way home from the meeting with the second lawyer, Fuller feuds with his wife, is kicked out of their car, and flags Laura down to ride back to Livingston with her. On the way, he tells Laura that he wants to shoot his former employers.  Late that same night, Laura is called by the police: Fuller has gone to his former place of employment and has taken a security guard hostage. After being prepped by the police, Laura agrees to enter the building and talk to Fuller. She enters, finds Fuller with his hostage, and at Fuller's directive, locates his employee file, which includes the case review used by the company to settle his disability claim. Fuller has Laura read the entire file, which details clearly how Fuller was cheated out of his rightful settlement. Fuller decides to let the guard go; he asks Laura to stall for him by going to the front and telling the police of his demands as if he has a gun pointed at her, while he slips out the back. Instead, Laura immediately tells the police where Fuller is and he is arrested.  Gina and Ryan Lewis are a married couple with a teenage daughter, building their own rural home from the ground up. Gina feels that Ryan constantly undermines her with their daughter. Ryan is also having an affair with Laura Wells. On their way home from the campsite of their new home, they decide to stop at the home of Albert, an elderly man they know, to try to persuade him to sell them a pile of sandstone blocks on his property. As they talk, Gina tries to persuade Albert to sell her the sandstone, but he seems unfocused and only interested in talking with Ryan. Eventually, Albert tentatively agrees to give the sandstone to Gina and Ryan. Gina, who has been secretly recording the conversation, signals that they should leave. In the car on their way home, Gina complains about Ryan's lack of support during the negotiation and they debate whether taking the sandstone is the right decision.  Sometime later, Gina and Ryan arrive and load up a truck full of the sandstone. She notices Albert watching from his window and waves at him but he does not wave back.  Jamie is a ranch hand living in isolation during the winter, tending to horses on a farm outside of Belfry. Heading into town one night, she sees cars turning into the school and follows them. She learns that she has stumbled onto a class on education law taught by a young lawyer, Beth Travis. Jamie goes out to eat with Beth after class.  Beth explains that she lives in Livingston, which is a four-hour drive away, so she must make the eight-hour round trip twice a week to make it back in time for her real job.  Despite having no interest in education law, Jamie returns to class week after week. One week she brings one of her horses to class, and she and Beth ride the horse to the diner. The following week, she is stunned to find that Beth has quit and a new teacher is brought in as a permanent replacement. She immediately leaves the class and drives straight to Livingston. Spending the night in her car, she spends the morning driving to law offices hoping to find Beth. On the way, she has flashbacks of the previous time she drove to the city. Locating her address, Jamie sees Beth in the parking lot, and tells her that she drove over knowing that if she didn't, she would never see her again. Beth fails to respond and Jamie leaves, dejected. On her way home, she falls asleep at the wheel and drives into an empty field.  Laura visits Fuller in prison. He says he understands how she acted and asks her to answer his letters just so as not to feel so lonely. She agrees. Gina has a barbecue with friends at her land and her husband appreciates her work. She looks at the sandstone and smiles. Jamie continues working at the ranch.