Herschel Greenbaum and wife, Sarah, are struggling Jewish laborers from Eastern Europe. They emigrate from their shtetl to America in 1919, after their village is rampaged by Russian Cossacks. He finds a job at a pickle factory and saves up for two graves at a Jewish cemetery. One day, while working, he falls into a vat of pickles just as the factory is closed for health reasons, leaving Herschel brined for 100 years.  Waking up in Brooklyn in 2019, Herschel discovers that his only living relative is his great-grandson Ben. Ben works as a freelance app developer and is currently developing the app "Boop Bop", a service that checks companies' ethics when buying their products. Ben reluctantly agrees to go with Herschel to the cemetery where Sarah and his son along with Ben's parents are buried. Herschel is disgusted to find the cemetery is in shambles with a Russian vodka billboard overlooking it. This causes him to assault construction workers putting up the billboard, leading to his and Ben's arrest.  Ben bails them out of jail; however, he finds that he can't get investors for his app due to his new criminal record, so he disowns Herschel. Herschel decides to begin a pickle business to buy and take down the billboard overlooking the cemetery. Herschel is a huge success over social media. However, Ben tells health inspectors that Herschel has been using produce found in the trash bins, causing him to be fined $12,000. Herschel is able to come back from this with the assistance of unpaid interns, causing his business to become even more popular and allowing him to refurbish the cemetery and remove the billboard. Herschel's success leads to Ben envying him even more.  Ben then tells Herschel to download Twitter, and he begins tweeting controversial statements. While initially met with protests and boycotts, Herschel is then seen as an icon of free speech and empowerment. While Herschel is hosting a friendly debate, Ben shows up and questions his thoughts on Christianity. This leads to a rant, causing the public to despise him. The government attempts to deport him after his immigration files can not be located.  Herschel arrives at Ben's, and Ben reluctantly agrees to help him get to the Canadian border. Through this, Ben and Herschel begin to reconcile their relationship. However, Ben admits that he tried to sabotage Herschel's business, causing Herschel to admit that he is disappointed that Ben is more committed to his app than his family's legacy, leading to a physical fight between them. Herschel steals Ben's backpack, and uses his razor to shave and puts on his clothes to pose as Ben, alerting the police that the real Ben is Herschel. This causes the real Ben's arrest and deportation.  In Ben's apartment, Herschel discovers that the app's name, "Boop Bop", was actually the nickname Ben gave his late parents, leading Herschel to realize that family was always in Ben's heart. He returns to his home country to find Ben, who is staying at a local synagogue. They reconcile, and some time later return to Brooklyn, hoping to develop a pickle-selling website.