Roughly a year after My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2, the family is still mourning both Gus Portokalos and Ian's father Rodney. Meanwhile, Athena and her husband Yianni are caring for Maria due to dementia. A separated Nick has returned to the family home and is again behaving immaturely. Toula Portokalos-Miller and Ian are still very happily married, he is a recently retired teacher. Their daughter Paris is struggling in college.  The mayor of Vrisi (Gus' former village) has invited Toula, Ian, Paris, Nick, Aunt Voula, and Aunt Freida there for a supposed reunion. Aunt Voula surprisingly secretly hires Aristotle, a Greek-American that Paris knew in college, as her assistant. Toula takes Gus's journal containing his life story to give to his three childhood friends in Greece as promised.  Distant relative Victory, the non-binary mayor who had invited them, greets the family upon arrival. They drive by Athens' beautiful sights, then have a ceremonial swim to celebrate their arrival to the homeland.  They eventually find Gus' childhood home in the nearly abandoned Vrisi. Although unsure, they decide to make the best of the situation by living as Gus did. The next day, they meet Alexandra, Gus' old flame. Victory admits there is no reunion, and hopes they will rejuvenate the village, but the Portokaloses are the first. Victory is only the mayor because the other five people left in Vrisi didn't want the job.  The next day, in a nearby town, Toula looks for Gus' friends, but no one knows them. Given several shots of ouzo, she gets very drunk, though she remembers a man watching her. Paris brushes off Aristotle and is hiding a secret. Nick, after pranking Ian with a cold shower, searches for the village's oldest tree. Meanwhile, Ian befriends a monk who has info on everyone's comings and goings from the village.   At dinner that night they meet Peter, the man Toula saw watching her. He is Alexandra and Gus's illegitimate son, who he never knew about, Toula and Nick's half-brother. They also meet Christos, Peter's son, and Alexandra's Syrian assistant Qamar. Afterwards, Christos and Qamar take Aristotle and Paris to a club, where they reveal they are secretly betrothed.  The next day, Toula tells Maria, Athena and Yianni about Peter, but has no luck finding Gus' friends. However, the monk gave Ian a list of the people who left the village, revealing one that moved to Syros. As Cousin Nikki vacationed there, Toula tells her. Nikki and her brother Angelo travel to Syros, and track him down. He leads them to the others, and they travel to Vrisi.   Meanwhile, Toula discovers Nick brought Gus's ashes to Greece, as he'd wanted them to be spread around the oldest tree in Vrisi. That night, the family discovers Christos and Qamar's engagement and that Paris is on academic probation. Peter and Alexandra disapprove, while Ian offers to intercede for Paris, but the younger generation refuse, wanting to handle their own problems.  The next day, Peter accepts Christos and Qamar's relationship, while Alexandra eventually does too. Victory, realizing a wedding is a great way to bring people to the village, plans theirs. Toula and Ian are encouraged to relax, so they enjoy their vacation while the others set up the wedding, although they do help at the end.  Qamar's family arrive for her and Christos' wedding in a great celebration. Paris admits she broke up with Aristotle due to her struggles to be independent, and they agree to start again slowly, to Aunt Voula's pleasure. Nikki and Angelo arrive with Gus' friends, and Toula gives them his journal. Later, Toula, Nick and Peter privately spread Gus' ashes around the tree, as Alexandra helped them find it.  Alexandra finally commends Victory's work as mayor. Meanwhile, Toula and Nick argue about who will now become head of the family, each saying it should be the other due to their actions on the trip.  On the way to the airport, Toula believes Gus knew they needed to return to the homeland. They bring Peter to welcome him into the family. At the airport, Ian gets Nick to act crazy in public. When the rest of the family arrives to pick them up, Nick offers Toula to host the next family dinner, and she responds with "wear your eating pants", an Alexandra expression.