Many Halloweens ago, Hannah's cousin, Jimmy, loved dressing up like a monster until last Halloween when he discovered that monsters are real and fears they will get him again this year; he plans to end Halloween to protect himself, while his friends, Daryl, Bert, and Katie, decide to go trick-or-treating with Hannah while distancing themselves from Jimmy due to his monster paranoia.  On the Fright Side, the Scary Godmother and her assortment of friends (Harry, Mr. Skully Pettibone, Bug-A-Boo, the vampire family of Max, Ruby, and Orson) are planning another annual Halloween party; however, the Fright Side is being affected by Jimmy's actions to end the holiday, such as smashing pumpkins in the pumpkin patch, sneaking into stores to contaminate candy and make costumes flammable, and vandalizing the abandoned spook house Hannah met the Godmother last time with toilet paper, and as this is happening he is slowly turning into an actual devil such as growing pointed ears, a unibrow, a scrunched-up nose, a wide grin and sharp teeth. Hannah successfully gets around these hurdles by making the smashed pumpkin holes serve as mouth, making new treats not involving candy, and imagining the toilet paper on the house as a set of ghost, putting the Fright Side universe back together and stable. Hannah takes Daryl, Bert and Katie to the house, introducing them to the friendly monsters and having them be taken to the party on the Fright Side.  Jimmy has one more plan to spoil the holiday, by stealing the party's Best Costume prize. He is initially successful, stealing the prize while all the guests are dancing. However, Jimmy bursts out loud the pumpkin consists of candy, which is noticed by a food-addicted Harry; a fight between the werewolf and Jimmy ensues, before Bug-A-Boo arrives and scares Jimmy, while Jimmy also makes Bug-A-Boo scream. After Jimmy's fright, Bug-a-Boo explains that he looked really scary, so Scary Godmother announces that Jimmy has won the contest. Jimmy is back to his old self again, and the party continues.