A computer programmer and network engineer Simon J. (Jeremy Sisto) begins finding empty plain paper packages in his apartment. Simon goes to great length to try and secure his apartment, but the packages keep appearing. Simon attempts to find out who is leaving the packages. At the same time, Simon, who works in IT, is under pressure to complete a programming project. Simon has also become obsessed with purchasing Nature Fresh brand milk. One of Simon's friends, a courier named Nile (Eugene Byrd), tells Simon that he needs to remedy his social isolation. During his investigation, Simon becomes acquainted with his eccentric neighbours in the block of apartments where he lives. The lifts within the apartment block have ceased working and the corridors are filled with security cameras. Derrick (Udo Kier), who occupies an apartment across the hall from Simon, has developed an artificial intelligence robot head, which Simon finds intriguing. Derrick suggests that the Neighbour (Bruce Payne), who occupies the apartment next to Simon's, may be responsible for the packages. Simon confronts the Neighbour, in the corridor, and asks him whether he has been leaving him packages. The Neighbour, exuding charisma and macho-ness, simply laughs at him.  Simon follows the Neighbour to and from a nightclub. In the nightclub, Simon sees the Neighbour interacting with a number of women, including Trish (Deborah Kara Unger). Trish notices Simon staring at them. On the way home from the nightclub, the Neighbour soon realises that he is being followed and pulls a knife on Simon. When the Neighbour realises who Simon is, he invites him into his apartment for a drink. Before entering his apartment, the Neighbour smashes the security cameras in the corridor. When Simon enters the Neighbour's apartment, he becomes aware that his refrigerator is filled with cans of cola 500. The Neighbour invites Simon to participate in a virtual reality sex-game that he has developed and which features Trish. Simon immerses himself within the virtual reality game. When he exits the game, he finds the Neighbour bleeding and dying. The Neighbour advises him that he had also been receiving packages, before dying. Simon subsequently develops a romantic relationship with Trish. Trish is obsessed with orange juice.  As Simon continues his investigations, a number of other murders begin happening in the building. Simon becomes aware that the other residents are receiving packages too but were keeping quiet. Simon also learns that the other residents are becoming addicted to certain products. The only person in the apartment who is not affected is the janitor, Howard (Lance Henriksen). Nile tells Simon about a corporate experiment to ‘infuse’ Nanomites into people's brains to make them addicted to certain products. Simon dismisses Nile's claims as a lie, but eventually realises that he is telling the truth.