David Mulcahey (Jesse Plemons), a struggling comedy writer, goes home to Sacramento to take care of his mother Joanne (Molly Shannon), diagnosed with rare leiomyosarcoma. The film spans a year, following the Mulcahey family as they deal with Joanne's cancer diagnosis.  Back in his childhood home, David reunites with his conservative father Norman (Bradley Whitford), and his two younger sisters Alexandra (Maude Apatow) and Rebeccah (Madisen Beaty). He has a distant relationship with his sisters, and a strained relationship with his father, who still refuses to accept David's sexuality ten years after he came out.  David has recently broken up with his boyfriend, Paul (Zach Woods). Not wanting to upset his mother, David tells the family they are still together. David also reconnects with his high school friend Gabe (John Early), and meets Gabe's flamboyant adopted brother Justin (Josie Totah). Meanwhile, Joanne continues with chemotherapy, though she hates the treatment and eventually decides to quit when the chemo proves to be ineffective. While talking to David about her decision to quit, Joanne apologizes for her initial reaction to him coming out; he forgives her.  In July, Joanne and the family take a trip to New York to attend David's improv show. He meets an artistic director at the show, who informs him about a new ABC show looking for writers. Encouraged, David begins working on a spec script. Meanwhile, after consulting with Paul, David takes the family to Paul's apartment under the guise that they are still in a relationship; Norman refuses to enter the apartment, staying behind. This dismays David, who hoped he had started to become more accepting of his sexuality. David spends the night with Paul and they end up having sex.  In October, Joanne's health is rapidly deteriorating, and she is put in hospice. David struggles to deal with her impending death; while buying medicine for her at a store, he has a brief meltdown in front of an employee. During a choir practice, David angrily walks out upon finding out another writer was given the ABC position. When Norman follows him outside the church, an enraged David reveals his breakup with Paul, points out Norman's refusal to acknowledge his sexuality, and questions what the future will be like after Joanne passes away. He instructs his father that when Joanne dies, Paul will be coming.  One night, Joanne accidentally slips in the shower and is assisted by David. They share a small moment, with Joanne thanking him for coming back to Sacramento, and confiding to him about her future death. Joanne reveals that she sees herself in each of her children, and tells David: "When you miss me and you want to see me, you just come home and see your sisters." David tearfully promises to take care of Alexandra and Rebeccah and embraces her.  In December, Joanne—surrounded by her family—passes away on her deathbed. Norman pays for Paul's plane ticket to Sacramento. The film ends with David joining Norman, Alexandra and Rebeccah in a bedroom, where they are all sleeping.