Jade and Ed are a married couple who, to their friends and family, seem to have it all. Jade works at a marketing firm, while Ed works as a heart surgeon. However, in private, Ed is emotionally and physically abusive towards Jade. Ed tears up a dress that Jade bought to wear to accept an award at her job, and hits, chokes, and throws her across their bedroom while accusing her of cheating on him with her coworker, Liam. Ed demands that Jade quit her job if she cannot work from home, but Jade instead packs her belongings the following day and sneaks out of the house with Kayla to move in with Leigh.  Ed assaults Jade after seeing divorce papers in her car. After Jade leaves work one day, a man in a trench coat walks up to her and aims a pistol at her, but walks away after almost being noticed by Liam. At Leigh's house, Jade reveals to Leigh that Ed has been abusing her and that she thinks Ed is trying to have her killed, but that she cannot report it to the police because Ed would paint her as crazy and would have Shawn to protect him. When Leigh and Kayla leave the house to go the park the next day, a hitman arrives to kill Jade. Ed, having ordered the hit on Jade, arrives at Leigh's house, only to find Jade missing and the kitchen trashed and covered in bloodstains. Meanwhile, Jade rents a room at a motel. A flashback shows that, before the hitman arrived, Jade cut open her own hands and flung herself around the kitchen to make it look like there was a struggle, and that the hitman showed up after Jade had already left.  Jade takes several measures to psychologically torment Ed, including sending him their wedding video from an unknown number, making an anniversary dinner reservation at Ed's favorite restaurant (where she leaves a bouquet of white flowers), replacing the slides in a slideshow he made for work with pictures of a skull superimposed over Jade's face, and sneaking into his house to leave her torn up dress on his bed and fill his closet with her clothes. Jade follows the hitman back to his apartment, where she sneaks in and learns that he is a parolee named Donald. Donald is confronted by Ed at his apartment over Jade still being alive before he notices Jade hiding outside. He runs after her only to be stopped by his parole officers.  Ed develops a drinking problem and starts to show signs of slipping, like choking his new girlfriend, Diane, after confusing her for Jade, forgetting to pick Kayla up from her babysitter, and being too shaky to perform surgery, which causes him to take a leave of absence from his job. Meanwhile, Leigh receives a letter from Jade, letting her know that she is still alive and safe. Jade continues to torment Ed by faking photos of her own dead body and sending them to the police, playing "their song" over Ed's Bluetooth speaker, and filling Ed's kitchen with white flowers.  After a candlelight vigil for Jade, where Ed almost catches Jade in the crowd during Leigh's speech, Leigh drives to Jade's motel room, but is unknowingly followed by Ed. He walks into the room to confront Jade and attempts to choke her out, but is stopped by Shawn, who holds him at gunpoint. Ed is arrested and Jade returns home to Leigh and Kayla.