Ron Hall, a successful art dealer, comes to the home of Julio, a man he previously sold a painting to. Julio allows Ron to write a book about his life and a life-changing event he experienced.  Two years earlier, Ron admits to his wife Debbie that he had an affair. Although very upset, she gives Ron another chance, but only if he makes up for his selfishness by helping her out at the local homeless shelter. Initially, Ron is cynical about this and is anxious to get out. They both notice a rather violent member of the community and Debbie convinces Ron to offer his friendship to the man. The man is grateful for the friendship and introduces himself as Denver.  Over time, Ron and Debbie develop a heartwarming and inspiring friendship with Denver. They even invite him over to spend the night. Denver reveals his life story to them: he grew up in the care of his grandmother who died in a fire that consumed their home. He soon left and became a sharecropper on a plantation where he was attacked by the KKK for having a white friend and talking to a white woman. Eventually, Denver fled the plantation and came to a town where he was arrested for attempted robbery. In jail, he killed a small group of prisoners when they attacked him. Ron and Debbie forgive him for his actions which he deeply appreciates. It is soon revealed that Debbie has terminal cancer.  Ron and Debbie invite Denver to spend the holidays with their family including Ron's mother Tommye and alcoholic father Earl whom Ron does not get along with. Earl further sours their relationship when he insults both Denver and Debbie causing Ron to sever ties with him which hurts Denver who never had a father and thinks there is a good man inside Earl.  Debbie has her final goodbyes to her children, Regan and Carson. She then tells Ron to have happiness with whomever he wants. She tells him where she wants to be buried. Later, both Ron and Denver share a dance with Debbie. Not long after, Debbie dies.  After the funeral, Ron stops visiting Denver. Back in the present, Ron leaves Julio's house and goes to Denver where they have a happy reunion. Denver tells Ron to visit Earl. At his parents' house, Ron finds a much happier Earl who has given up drinking and made up with Tommye who thanks Ron. Ron and Denver go camping near Debbie's grave and reminisce about her.  In closing titles, it is revealed Ron finished his book with Denver's help and the two travel cross-country sharing their story and getting funds for other homeless shelters.