At the isolated home of Sarah Pierce and her paraplegic daughter Nica, a mysterious package arrives in the mail containing Chucky - Sarah throws the doll in the rubbish, unimpressed by the doll. That night, Nica awakens to Sarah's screaming and finds her stabbed to death with a pair of scissors - the death is ruled as a suicide. The next day, Nica is visited by her older sister, Barb, alongside her husband Ian, daughter Alice, their live-in nanny Jill, and Father Frank, a priest, to help support her. Nica and Barb argue over whether to sell the house to afford Alice's private school, meanwhile Alice discovers Chucky and bonds with him.  That night, Nica and Alice cook chili con carne for dinner, but Chucky secretly spikes one of the bowls with rat poison. Father Frank eats the poisoned chili, gets sick, and excuses himself to drive home - later that night, Frank is killed in a traffic collision alongside two other civilians. Meanwhile, as the family watch films from when Sarah was pregnant with Nica, Nica recognizes Charles Lee Ray in the footage. Alice loses track of Chucky and asks Jill to look for her, during which it is revealed that Barb and Jill have an affair.  Nica finds Chucky and returns her to Alice, but she reveals that Chucky has been talking to her about death. Concerned, Nica researches Chucky and finds that he was sent from an evidence depository, and discovers news reports of all his previous murders as well as Andy Barclay's lawsuit against Good Guys - a thunderstorm cuts the phone lines soon afterwards. Meanwhile, as Barb and Jill have a video call from across rooms, Chucky sneaks into Jill's room and spills a bucket of rainwater onto a power socket, fatally electrocuting Jill and cutting the power.  Barb leaves to investigate, but awakens Ian, who reveals he placed a hidden camera in Chucky and knows of their affair. Nica attempts to warn Barb of Chucky's true nature, but she accuses him of being in league with Ian and brushes her off. Investigating Chucky in the attic, Barb discovers a kitchen knife hidden in Chucky's shirt and a peeling layer of silicone covering his scars from Bride of Chucky - in response, Chucky reveals himself and kills Barb, gouging her eye out with the knife.  Nica sees Barb's corpse thrown down the stairs, and awakens Ian to warn him - he leaves her in the garage while he searches for Alice, but Chucky sneaks inside and begins revving the car's exhaust, hoping to suffocate her with the fumes. Nica breaks the car window with an axe to stop Chucky, but Ian finds Nica with the axe and believes she is the killer. Nica is unable to take the strain and has a heart attack, passing out - she awakens bound in Ian's room, who inspects Chucky's nanny cam. Ian discovers Chucky's interactions with Alice just as he attacks them, knocking Ian to the ground and hacking his jaw off with the axe.  Nica is able to free herself from her bonds, and struggles with Chucky before being thrown off of the balcony in the main hall - she survives, but is unable to move without her wheelchair. Asking Chucky why he killed her family, he explains that as Charles Lee Ray, he was a friend of the Pierce family and obsessed over Sarah - he murdered Nica's father and kidnapped Sarah, presenting her flowers (which she would later compulsively paint), but was discovered by the police. Believing Sarah led them to him, Charles stabbed her in the stomach, resulting in Nica's paraplegia, and escaped, leading to his death as depicted in Child's Play (1988).  Nica stalls Chucky by mocking him about his inability to kill Andy Barclay, enabling her to grab Chucky's knife and stab him. Chucky flees the house as Officer Stanton, who discovered Frank's death, arrives in the house - seeing Nica holding the bloody knife in the elevator, she is arrested; Nica is found guilty of the murders in court and remanded to a mental asylum. Later, as Stanton leaves to deliver Chucky to an unknown buyer, he is murdered by Tiffany Valentine (still possessing Jennifer Tilly's body), who takes Chucky and mails him to Alice, who is now living with her grandmother. After smothering the grandmother to death with a plastic bag, Chucky begins his voodoo chant to transfer his soul into Alice's body.  In a post-credits scene, Chucky is mailed to Andy Barclay, now an adult after graduating from military school. As Andy is on the phone to his mother, Chucky cuts his way out of the package, but Andy catches on and blows Chucky apart with a shotgun.