After his wife dies, Roger forces his son Michael to go on a hunting trip in rural Washington. When they reach their cabin, they find it has been broken into and is a mess. They clean it up and are visited by family friend Sergio and Roger's brother-in-law Will. Tensions rise as neither Michael nor Will get along with Sergio, but they nevertheless decide to go hunting the next day.  During the hunting trip, Sergio stumbles upon some blood and unrecognizable body parts and is visibly distraught. The group later hear a strange howling, which Sergio speculates comes from a bear, even though Roger insists there are no bears living on that mountain.  While relieving himself, Sergio is charged by an unseen creature and manages to shoot it, although no trace of it can be found. Sergio is even further aggravated and suggest they return to the cabin, but Roger decides they should set up a camp for the night. As they walk away, a creature steps out on the path and observes them.  Much to Michael's dismay, they have no tents to sleep in, but Roger tells him they'll be safe regardless. While discussing today's events, Sergio realizes that the creature he saw must be a Sasquatch. Roger belittles him for his theory, but Will tells a story of a group of people who were attacked by unseen creatures while visiting their cabin in the area almost a century earlier.  Michael wakes up in the middle of the night when a group of Sasquatches are rummaging through the camp. Sergio and Roger open fire on them and the creatures disappear into the night. The group pursue them, only for Roger to be taken. Sergio, Will and Michael run back to the cabin while being pursued by the creatures. While discussing their options, Will and Sergio get in an altercation and Will is stabbed to death. Fearing for his safety, Michael knocks Sergio out.  A while later, a stranger comes knocking on the door and Michael lets him in. The stranger, who introduces himself as Bauman, tells of how he a few days earlier went up the mountain in search of a gold mine, at which point he was abducted by the Sasquatches. For reasons unknown to Bauman, the creatures kept him alive in their cave, and he was eventually able to make his escape after killing one of them. This causes Michael to speculate that Roger, too, is being kept alive and insists they go find him.  Guided by Bauman, Michael finds the cave and Roger, still alive, albeit with a broken leg. They retreat back to the cabin, but are assaulted by two Sasquatches. Bauman is killed by one of them, and Michael and Roger enlist the help of Sergio to keep them at bay. Eventually, though, Roger sacrifices Sergio to the creatures to give him and Michael time to get to their truck.  On the way to the truck, the creatures catch up with them, but Roger is able to kill one of them. Enraged by this, the last remaining Sasquatch moves to kill Roger, only to be stopped by Michael pointing Roger's gun at it. Michael, however, decides to spare the creature's life and it lets them leave before walking off into the woods.