A crew of "reapers", whose job is to extract the souls of people who are about to die, find themselves confronted by change as their habitual meeting place (Der Waffle Haus) burns down the same day their boss and head reaper (Rube) disappears (having "gotten his lights"). They soon meet their new boss, Cameron Kane (Henry Ian Cusick), a slick businessman who died falling from the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He outfits them with color-coordinated smartphones and treats them to luxurious accommodations – teaching them, as Roxy (Jasmine Guy) puts it later, that "nothing we do here matters." This tutelage leads the reapers to perform such misdeeds as saving those they were to reap (Roxy), abusing immortality for financial gain (Mason, played by Callum Blue), letting a soul wander, instead of showing him "his lights" (Daisy, now played by Sarah Wynter), and otherwise selfishly focusing on their wants.  Georgia "George" Lass (Ellen Muth), the movie's narrator, is fired from Happy Time (a temp agency) after she loudly chews out an employee for delivering a report late. The employee quits and later sues for harassment. George ends up revealing her identity to her sister Reggie (Britt McKillip). George finds herself reminiscing with Reggie, helping Reggie prepare for the death of her boyfriend, Hudson Hart (Jordan Hudyma).  George's fellow reapers confront Kane and learn that he had realized and did not care that the "pebbles" of their misdeeds would cause "waves" of misfortune elsewhere. Unhappy with his style of management, they try to deduce how exactly a fellow reaper can be killed. They shoot and drown him to no effect before finally dismembering and cremating him. His ashes are then shot into orbit along with those of Murray, the cat belonging to George's boss Delores. At the launch, Delores tells George that the employee who had sued her for harassment had done so at several of the employee's previous jobs, and George is reinstated, now with a corner office.  The reapers walk away from the launch, wondering who their new boss will be. George, after seeing her sister and mother drive off on vacation, finds herself suddenly showered with Post-Its falling from the sky, like the Post-Its their former leader Rube had used to deliver their reaping assignments. Realizing she has been selected as the group's new leader, she says, "I am so fucked" as the camera pulls away from the Earth into orbit.