On Halloween night 1998 admist his senior year at Cornell University, Tom Bailey, Jr., dressed as Bill Clinton, enters the dark dorm room of Monica, his pre-arranged date. Thinking Monica is in the bed, he climbs in and she maces him with perfume.  It was actually Monica's geeky roommate, Hannah. They flirt but he insults her. When Hannah and Tom return to the dorm room, a drunken Monica is there waiting, but he doesn't stay.  Ten years later, Tom is now wealthy in NYC as his "coffee collar" invention pays him a dime every time one is used. Hannah, also in the city, has stayed best friends with him ever since that night in college. Tom continues to sleep with a different girl every week, while Hannah stays single, focusing on her career at the MET.   Tom takes Hannah to his father's sixth wedding. They share an intimate moment when they dance, however, Tom still thinks of her as his best friend.  Hannah has a 6-week-work trip to Scotland. Tom realizes that, being with a different woman week after week isn't fulfilling when he can't see Hannah. Realizing he has feelings for Hannah, Tom decides to tell her when she returns.   Hannah does not come back alone; she brings Colin, a wealthy Scottish Duke, as her fiancé. Asking Tom to be her maid of honor he accepts. He does so to spend time with Hannah, convince her to stop the wedding and win her heart.   As Hannah's maid of honor, Tom is introduced to the three bridesmaids. One is Melissa, Hannah's cousin and an ex, whose heart he broke and is now upset that she isn't the maid of honor. Melissa sabotages the bridal shower by tricking him into inviting a sex toy salesman as a party entertainer.   Believing it was Tom's idea, Hannah gets upset and almost fires Tom, but thanks to his friends' How To Be A Perfect M-O-H 101 course, he wins her trust back. Taking her shopping, he impresses her with a plate-juggling performance. Hannah enjoys it, but reveals she is moving to Scotland after the wedding.  Tom, almost accepting defeat, continues being a responsible M-O-H by traveling to Scotland with Hannah. After their arrival at Eilean Donan Castle, he meets Colin's family. They have a variant of the Highland Games, in which the groom competes to prove himself worthy of his bride. Tom also participates, hoping to defeat Colin, but he loses in the last round.  At the rehearsal dinner, Colin's family proudly tells Hannah (who opposes to the killing and eating of animals) that every plate of meat on the table is from animals that Colin killed. Later that night, Tom offers to help go over her vows. As he starts to tell her his feelings, the other bridesmaids interrupt, dragging Hannah to her bachelorette party.   Hannah has to give every man in the pub a peck for a coin (Scottish tradition), including Tom. When it is his turn, without anyone looking, he passionately kisses her, and she kisses back.   Afterwards, Hannah goes to Tom's room to discuss the kiss but sees Melissa trying to seduce him. Seeing Hannah at the door, he pushes Melissa off and runs after her. Hannah refuses to let Tom into her room and she tells him she is still marrying Colin the next day. The distressed Tom gives up being the M-O-H as he cannot bear to watch them marry.  As he is leaving the next morning, Tom has a change of heart and turns back. Finding the only ferry unavailable, he borrows a horse to ride to the ceremony. As he is riding up to the church doors, the horse stops, sending him flying through the chapel doors and interrupting the wedding.  Hannah rushes to Tom's side and he declares his love. She realizes she loves Tom back and kisses him passionately, calling off the wedding and apologizing to Colin, who punches Tom in the face.  Tom and Hannah go back to New York together, getting married on a rooftop under the stars and live happily ever after.