Dan Burns is a newspaper advice columnist, widower, and single-parent to his three daughters, living in North Jersey. The family takes a trip to the oceanside Rhode Island home of his parents for an annual family gathering. Also in attendance are Dan's brother and sister with their families, along with Dan's younger brother Mitch, who is known for his carefree lifestyle.  The morning after their arrival, Dan meets Marie in a bookshop. They share a muffin and a heart-felt conversation, although she gently warns him that she has a new boyfriend.   Dan returns to his parents' house and announces that he has "met someone", whereupon the whole family encourages him to "go for it". Later, at the house, Mitch introduces his new girlfriend, who turns out to be Marie. Dan is disheartened and resists his father's relationship advice about finding someone of his own.  Dan reluctantly agrees to a double date with their once unattractive childhood friend, Ruthie "Pig Face" Draper. Marie jealously watches him and Ruthie. The next morning, Dan endures her "silent treatment punishment" for his late night with Ruthie by eating the burnt pancakes that she serves him. Tension grows between Dan and Marie, culminating at the family talent show, from which Dan has been excused by the family.   Mitch has Dan accompany him on the guitar as he sings, "Let My Love Open the Door". During the bridge, Dan begins to sing as well, seemingly to Marie. The next morning outside at her car, Marie breaks up with Mitch and drives away.   However, she soon calls. Later, having made their way through pouring rain in their cars, Marie and Dan meet at a bowling alley to talk. The meeting evolves into a date and finally a passionate kiss, interrupted when Dan's entire family arrives to bowl. Mitch punches Dan in the face and Marie hurries out. Meanwhile, Dan's middle daughter, Cara, grows more frustrated because of his meddling in her relationship with her boyfriend, Marty, whom she earnestly professes to Dan that she "loves."  After the bowling alley fiasco, Dan's three daughters angrily turn on him. Later Dan reconciles with them and they travel together to New York City, where they finally find Marie at her gym. As he makes eye contact with her, Dan, in voice-over, tells the readers of his advice column that instead of merely planning ahead in life, they should "plan to be surprised."  The film ends with Dan and Marie celebrating their wedding at his parents' Rhode Island home; Mitch happily dancing with Ruthie and Cara happily dancing with Marty, whom Dan has now accepted.