In Chicago, Brenda Brown-Davis is the struggling single mother of Mike Jr., Lena, and Tosha. She receives a letter telling her that the father she has never met has died and his funeral will be in Georgia. The same day, the plant where she works with her friend Cheryl "relocates its business to Mexico" adding to her existing financial difficulties. Then Miss Mildred, who supervises Lena in her home daycare, quits due to the fact that Brenda has not been paying her.  Harry, a basketball scout, notices Mike Jr. playing well at a game and comes to their house to talk about the boy's future. Harry asks Brenda out, but she has no interest in hearing about her son going professional and walks away. She begs Miss Mildred to watch Lena briefly and goes to see her ex with Cheryl for financial help. Mike Sr., who has never given Brenda any assistance, says no and Brenda runs after Cheryl throws a brick at him.  Brenda takes her children to Georgia to attend the funeral and meets half-siblings who did not know she existed and are led by Cora Simmons and Leroy Brown. She is surprised to run into Harry, who lives in the same town and is friendly with her father's family members LB, Sarah, Vera, and Will. Harry does partaking in a basketball game with Mike Jr. and Will.  At dinner, Brenda learns that LB was the only one who knew about her when she shows the letter to Vera. On his deathbed, Pop confessed to LB that he had been a pimp in Chicago. Brenda's mother who was LB's mother and many of Pop's friends, the children had all known, were his prostitutes, much to the shock of the rest of the Browns. The family welcomes Brenda, offering support and encouragement. After the funeral, they learn that Pop Brown left an old house to Brenda in his will. Brenda decides not to move in there, despite Harry's suggestion that she should stay.  Once Brenda is back in Chicago, Mike Sr. offers money in exchange for a one-night stand. After Brenda rejects him, Mike Jr. overhears Mike Sr. insulting her and storms out. Trying to make money and help, Mike Jr. turns to Calvin, a friend who deals drugs. Harry sees them together and suspects something is wrong. He counsels Mike Jr. and goes home with him, to explain the situation to Brenda. She threatens to kick Mike Jr. out if he starts dealing drugs. Mike Jr. realizes the risks involved in drug dealing would let his family down and promises to not do it.  When Harry and Brenda leave for a date, Mike Jr. tells Calvin that he has changed his mind and returns the drugs. Rival drug dealers arrive and attack Calvin for selling on their turf. Michael is shot and wounded when he runs away at Calvin's urging. This leads to a further breakdown in Brenda's relationship with Mike Sr.  After Mike Jr. recovers, Harry asks the Browns for help to get Pop Brown's run-down house for Brenda and her kids; they renovate the house and surprise her. Brenda overhears Vera talking to Sarah suggesting that Harry only dates Brenda to get his "perks" from helping Mike Jr. Brenda confronts Harry, who asserts that he truly means well, but she breaks up with him. Meanwhile, Cora and Leroy watch the news of a chase involving their relatives Madea and Joe Simmons. As Madea is arrested and Joe flees, Leroy gives Cora money to bail her mother out.  A basketball league representative visits Brenda and offers Mike Jr. a million-dollar contract; Brenda learns that Harry referred them without asking for any money. On the day Mike Jr. signs his contract, Mike Sr. arrives to be photographed with his ex and son. However, Mike Jr. announces to the press that he does not know his father, and that his mother raised him without support.  While leaving, Mike Jr. tells Brenda that Harry is a good man and more of a father figure than his actual father. Brenda goes to see Harry and they reconcile. The two eventually marry, and the Browns attend the wedding.