Molly Morris, a private investigator based in Dallas, takes photos of cheating men. FBI Agent Armon Ranford interferes one of her investigations to offer her a job with the FBI. The task is to watch over Alex Patrone, the daughter of a Senator involved in an organized-crime case.  Molly is reluctant at first but ultimately decides to accept Ranford's offer as she needs money to bail her gambling father out of debt. She undergoes a makeover, then goes undercover as sorority sister Brook Stonebridge. Molly meets Sasha Stolezinsky, the head of the sorority, and other members, including Becky, Cotton, Hunter, and Alex, whom she has been hired to protect.  Telling Alex they were at the same summer camp, Molly recites something unique to the camp to gain her trust. As Molly meets the sisters, she quickly picks up on the false façade many of them show to fit in. Her roommate Becky is British, but is working on her southern drawl. At first, Molly thinks that Sasha may be a suspect, as she can find no background on her.  Molly also meets her love interest, Nicholas Dexter, another student at the college, making small talk about his vintage motorcycle. Nick and Alex note her finely-honed detective skills when they observe a student getting into a professor's car and she details the signs of their affair.  Snooping around Alex's room when she's out, her roommate Taylor catches Molly. She gets away with it by saying she's borrowing something. As Ranford insists Molly look out for people who are falsely portraying themselves, she begins to suspect Professor Talloway. She then discovers that Alex secretly goes off to his home on a lake.  Envious of the positive attention Molly is receiving from the other sisters, Sasha plants some items that have disappeared from various sisters in Molly's things. Ostracized by the sorority, Molly asks her dad to research her, but he calls to tell her he can't find info on Sasha either. So, she searches Sasha's room and discovers she only changed her identity from Suzy Walters so she could start a new life rather than continue to be an outcast like in high school.    Molly continuously reports back to Ranford, who at one point tells her that Nicholas Dexter, her love interest, is not his real name. She initially believes him, locking Nicholas up and knocking him out one night. Molly follows Alex to Talloway's home, only to discover that he is actually a federal agent. She encounters a masked gunman, from whom she escapes. She realises it's Ranford, who drives off with a kidnapped Alex, and soon finds Talloway injured from a gunshot wound outside his home.  When she returns to the sorority house, she encounters two FBI agents working on the case. They are hesitant to believe her at first, but Morris convinces them to help solve the case with her sorority sisters. They execute the plan, rescue Alex, and corner Ranford, who is arrested. Alex hands over an SD card containing the evidence for her father's case to Molly, who hands it over to the feds.  The FBI is pleased with Molly's work, and she is offered a job with them. She declines and instead wants to continue going to college. Two months pass, Molly is doing surveillance of a guy Cotton is dating for her. Nicholas comes up to her, revealing they are dating and they kiss as the film ends.