Emily's friend Angelica invites her to a rave party in the woods. Emily's parents, Leo and Justine, tell her she must return by midnight or call if she's going to be late. At the party, Angelica asks Swan, another party guest, for ecstasy. Swan says he has some in a nearby cabin, where his friends live, and the girls agree to accompany him there. They are unaware that Swan's friends are actually his father Chaos, a notorious and wanted criminal, Chaos's girlfriend Daisy and felon Frankie, and that Chaos has sent Swan to the party to lure unsuspecting women to him.  At the cabin, Emily and Angelica are captured by the gang and taken deep into the woods. The girls manage to escape from their captors and split up to make themselves harder to find. Angelica is caught by Daisy and brought before Chaos, who tortures her, stabs her to death, and violates her corpse. After sunset, the gang finds Emily, who steals Daisy's knife in a struggle and stabs Swan viciously in the genitals. Rather than letting his son bleed to death, Chaos suffocates him and promises to murder Emily in revenge.  Justine becomes nervous about Emily's whereabouts and convinces Leo to call the police, although she suspects that local police officer MacDunner won't take her seriously because he is racist towards her family. Justine and Leo head into the woods to search for the girls themselves, and find Angelica's corpse. They return to their home.  Chaos and Frankie recapture Emily and bind her with rope. Chaos tortures her to death by cutting her anus and genitals, but cannot rape her as a result. The gang prepares to leave the area, but Chaos's van fails to start, forcing them to abandon it and search for a car to steal. The van is then found by MacDunner and his partner Wilson, who discover blood-stained clothes within.  The gang heads to a nearby house to steal the car, unaware that they have arrived at Emily's home. Leo lets Chaos and his group inside, but notices that Daisy is wearing Emily's belt. Suspecting the group of being involved with Emily's disappearance, Leo calls the police, while Chaos and Frankie prepare to hot-wire his car and kill the couple.  Chaos is confronted by a shotgun-wielding Leo, demanding answers about Emily. In the meantime, Frankie has captured Justine, and brings her to Chaos, distracting Leo. Chaos disarms Leo and takes the shotgun, shooting Daisy when she tries to persuade him to leave the house. In the ensuing confusion, the couple escape.  Leo finds a chainsaw and attacks, killing Frankie and disarming Chaos of his shotgun. Before Leo can shoot him, MacDunner and Wilson arrive and order Leo to drop his weapon. When Leo hesitates, MacDunner fatally shoots him. Justine grabs Wilson's gun and shoots MacDunner in the back. Wilson disarms Justine, but Chaos shoots him and then Justine. Chaos's laughter is heard over the closing credits.