Class Action Park begins by chronicling the life of penny stockbroker Eugene Mulvihill, who is described as having become rich from pump-and-dump schemes. It outlines his path to opening Vernon Township's Action Park in 1978. He envisioned it as a park with "no rules".  The first two-thirds of the film features former Action Park guests and employees reflecting on the park's more dangerous rides, such as the Cannonball Loop, the SuperSpeed Waterfalls, the Alpine Slides and the Tarzan Swings, and reflects on the park itself and its general atmosphere and culture. The life of Eugene Mulvihill is also chronicled, including a discussion of his legal issues, which often involved Action Park. For example, a land dispute with the state of New Jersey is said to have been resolved after the state got tired of dealing with him.  The last third of the film focuses on the dangers of Action Park by chronicling the deaths that occurred there, as well as documenting the story of George Larsson Jr.'s death while riding the Alpine Slides in 1980, which was the first death at Action Park. It was covered up by the park in order to avoid reporting his death to New Jersey authorities. It was claimed that they didn't need to, as he was not a member of the general public. Action Park claimed that Larsson died as an employee of the park riding the slide at night during a rain shower, but in fact, all three claims were untrue. The suggestion that Mulvihill corrupted Vernon Township officials during Action Park's existence is also mentioned, as are the downfall of the park and Mulvihill's death. The film ends with the interviewees reflecting on Action Park as a whole, with one stating that its vision continues to live on in schemes such as Fyre Festival and Theranos. Another calls it an '80s movie in real life that will never happen again. Footage of George Larsson Jr.'s mother and younger brother visiting his grave is shown.  The film also mentions that Donald Trump considered investing in the park at one point, but  backed out after finding Mulvihill's vision for the park to be too risky.