In 1964 England, Estella is a creative child with a talent for fashion, but is ostracized for her black and white hair and develops a nefarious streak. Her mother, Catherine, encourages her to be a winner, using the name "Cruella" for the person she must compete against. After Estella keeps getting in trouble at school, Catherine decides to move them to London, stopping at a party at Hellman Hall, a mansion on the Suffolk coast to ask the host for money. Sneaking inside, Estella loses her mother's necklace while being chased by the host's Dalmatian dogs, which push Catherine off a cliffside balcony to her death. Orphaned, Estella runs away to London and befriends street urchins Jasper and Horace.  Ten years later in 1974, Estella practices thievery and grifts with Jasper and Horace, honing her fashion skills by designing their disguises, alongside their dogs, Buddy and Wink. For her birthday in 1977, Jasper gets her a job at the Liberty department store, but Estella is made a janitor and denied the chance to use her talents. She drunkenly redecorates the window display and impresses the Baroness—a renowned-but-authoritarian haute couture designer—who offers her a coveted job at her fashion house. Estella gains Baroness's confidence but notices her wearing Catherine's necklace, which Baroness claims is a family heirloom that an employee once stole. After Baroness takes away the necklace, Estella asks Jasper and Horace to help retrieve it during Baroness's Black and White Ball.  To conceal her identity, Estella creates an alter-ego, "Cruella", and wears one of the Baroness's old designs from a vintage clothing store owned by the flamboyant Artie. At the ball, Cruella steals the spotlight as Jasper and Horace break into Baroness's vault, but they realise that the Baroness is already wearing the necklace. Jasper improvises and releases rats into the party, allowing Estella to swipe the necklace. The Baroness summons her Dalmatians with a dog whistle, and Estella realizes Baroness caused Catherine's death. In the ensuing chaos, a Dalmatian swallows the necklace. Seeking revenge, Estella orders Jasper and Horace to kidnap the Dalmatians, and recovers the necklace. Cruella upstages the Baroness at various events in extravagant fashions, gaining notoriety via society columnist Anita Darling, Estella's childhood friend. Furious, Baroness fires her lawyer, Roger Dearly, while Cruella's increasingly haughty behavior discomforts Jasper.  Estella designs and sews an elaborately beaded dress, secretly disguising moth cocoons as beads, as the signature piece for Baroness's spring collection. The night of the spring show, the Baroness opens the vault to find that the collection has been destroyed by moths. After seeing this, Baroness realizes Estella and Cruella are the same person. Having wrecked Baroness' show, Cruella stages her own rock music fashion show outside in Regent's Park, wearing a faux Dalmatian-fur coat. Returning home, Estella is confronted by Baroness and her men, who have captured Jasper and Horace. Setting fire to the building, Baroness leaves Estella to die, and has Jasper and Horace sent to prison for her murder. Estella is saved by John, Baroness's valet, who reveals that the necklace unlocks a box containing Estella's birth records: Baroness is her biological mother. She had ordered John to murder the infant Estella to focus on her career and keep her husband's inheritance, telling the Baron the baby died; the heartbroken Baron died soon after that. Instead, John gave the baby to Catherine, one of Baroness's maids, who raised Estella in secret.   Cruella breaks Jasper and Horace out of prison and reveals the truth, recruiting them, Artie and John for her final scheme. The quintet sneaks into Baroness's charity gala, having arranged for all the guests to dress as Cruella. On the balcony, Estella confronts her mother, who feigns an embrace before pushing her over the cliff, unwittingly witnessed by her guests. Estella secretly survives with a hidden parachute and, now legally dead, adopts her Cruella persona for good. Baroness is arrested, swearing revenge on Cruella. Before "dying", Estella willed her inheritance to Cruella, including the manor which she renames from Hellman Hall to "Hell Hall", moving in with her accomplices.