A talk begins between school teacher Mr. Storms and his student Timothy Vasquez. Timothy asks why Mr. Storms wanted him, and Mr. Storms says he wanted to stab Timothy in the head with a knife and does so. After, Mr. Storms says no one will solve this crime. Meanwhile, the narrator introduces the protagonists Lieutenants Mark Branski who wields an oversized gun and David French whose hand is a lie-detector. On their way to Mr. Storms' residence, Branski knocks at the door. Answering the door, Mr. Storms learns Branski wants to question him for Timothy's death. Mr. Storms recognizes the team by what they wield. In Mr. Storm's living room, the teacher offers the two health cookies. Despite the offer, Branski asks if Mr. Storms is married. In response, Storms says he is unmarried while Branski and French are not. Afterwards, Branski asks if Storms killed Timothy which he refutes. The three enter an interlude about honesty wherein Mr. French's head levitates into space with ambient music. Returning to his body, Mr. French realizes his wife has been dead for five years. Despite the epiphany, Mr. Storms asks if he remains a murder suspect which Branski declares they saw him commit the crime. In a black-and-white flashback, both Branski and French were in the classroom when it took place. In French's flashback, Timothy is replaced by Lt. French who removes his hat to show the knife in his head. From this revelation, Mr. Storms runs away from the two while both Branski and French chase after. Branski shoots repeatedly at Mr. Storms despite missing each time. However, one shot enters the back of Mr. Storms' head and exits the left eye socket. Crumpled to the street, Mr. Storms dies quietly while Branski remarks they solved the crime. Yet, Lt. French is tormented by his own thoughts. Driving back to her grave, Lt. French recalls black-and-white memories of his dead wife. Paying respects to her tombstone, Lt. French notices that his wife is buried alongside Lt. Branski's. Immediately, French calls Branski via cellphone and the two meet on a rooftop. Branski remarks his wife alive, while French's robotic hand admits this is a lie. Upon this truth, Branski brings forth his gun and aims it at his head. French says the world is terrible, and Branski drops the gun in agreement. The two drive back as the scene ends.