Billy Moore, a young British boxer and troubled heroin addict, is arrested in Thailand after being charged with possession of stolen goods and a firearm.   Incarcerated into Klong Prem prison, Billy is quickly subjugated to the horrors of Thai prison life, including being moved into a crowded mass ruled by cell boss Keng, forced to sleep next to a corpse and witnessing at knifepoint the rape of a fellow inmate. Billy's experiences with the other prisoners and personnel are tense, at one point going into a violent frenzy and biting into the neck of a corrections officer after being refused painkillers. Following his punishment, Billy attempts to befriend a transgender prisoner named Fame. Life in prison worsens for Billy, and he retreats into heavy drug abuse; he subsequently beats two Muslim chefs half to death after being bribed ya ba by a corrupt corrections officer.  Billy's psyche finally breaks; he attempts suicide by slitting his wrist, though he survives. With a desperate need to fight again and battle his demons, Billy eventually joins the boxing team with the help of Fame, with whom he later develops a romance. Billy quickly adapts to the art of Muay Thai and wins his first bout in a close back-and-forth brawl. Impressed by his performance, prison warden Preecha has him transferred into the boxing team cell, being the first foreigner to compete in the national Muay Thai tournament and represent the prison.   There he soon develops a camaraderie with the other boxers, receiving a tattoo on his back. However, Billy is ambushed by Keng and his gang, who threaten him with a pin prick attack if he loses the tournament. Even worse, it is established that Billy is suffering from a hernia due to his drug abuse, and any subsequent damage could result in severe internal bleeding. Regardless, Billy still desires to compete. The resulting match is gruelling for Billy, as he takes multiple shots to the stomach and is also fouled by his opponent. However, Billy manages to knock him out with a spinning back elbow and wins the fight using what he learned. Despite the victory, the physical trauma is too much, and Billy ends up vomiting blood and passing out.  Billy is quickly rushed to the hospital, and after waking up, he sneaks out of the building and into the cityscape. Billy soon reconsiders his actions and returns to the hospital. After being transferred, he meets his father (played by the real Billy Moore), and the two exchange a solemn smile. Closing titles reveal that after serving three years, Billy Moore was transferred to a UK prison and released on an amnesty by the King of Thailand in October 2010. Since his release, he has devoted his life to working with other addicts and fighting to maintain his recovery.