After receiving a warning not to come to their family lake house in Maine, siblings Lyla and Ed stage an intervention for their brother, Martin, a dishonorably discharged veteran who believes the military has experimented on him.  When they arrive, they find that he has descended into apparent paranoid psychosis and claims to have trapped a monster in the basement.  Martin explains that he found a pod while hunting in the woods and believes it to be part of a government conspiracy to create artificial, inanimate assassins.  Martin subsequently pulled several of his teeth to find what he believes is a tracking device.  However, since he destroyed it, he can not prove it to his siblings.  When Ed demands to see what is in the basement, Martin refuses to let him and reveals infected scratches across his torso, which he says were made by the trapped creature.  Ed, a mental health professional, insists they take Martin back to the VA hospital where he was previously institutionalized after attacking a nurse, though Lyla wants to hear more of Martin's side of the story.  Martin overhears Lyla and Ed discuss taking him back to the institution and confronts them with a knife.  As they try to talk him down, Martin announces that they are all going to die anyway and slices his throat.  As Ed attempts to stop the bleeding, Lyla panics.  Ed forces her to go downstairs and call for help, but she discovers Martin has cut the phone's cord.  Unknown to them, he has also sabotaged their car.  After Martin dies from blood loss, Ed kicks open the barricaded basement door.  Lyla begs him not to go down, but Ed says he must check if there is an injured person held captive.  Ed initially finds nothing in the darkness, and when he turns on a light, it blows a fuse.  Flipping the power back on reveals a humanoid creature, confirming that Martin had actually been telling the truth. The creature immediately attacks Ed.  Ed barely escapes back up to the house.  After telling Lyla to flee the house, Ed becomes disoriented as he remembers that Martin said the monster had some kind of hallucinatory venom.  He slows down the monster by stabbing it with a syringe that contains a mild sedative he had intended to give Martin, then retrieves Martin's rifle.  As the monster recovers and tries to rush him, Ed shoots it.  Meanwhile, Lyla discovers the car will not start and runs to a nearby house.  After banging on the door to no effect, she stops a passing motorist, identified later as Smith.  Smith calmly questions her, says the creature is not a government conspiracy, and kills her with a shot to the head.  Back at the house, Ed deliriously celebrates his victory against the creature, which he has repeatedly struck with the butt of the rifle to make sure it is dead.  Ed calls out to Lyla, saying that it is safe to return; hearing this, Smith shoots and kills him. Smith contacts someone on a walkie-talkie and reports that the creature is dead, though he does not know whether there is a nearby colony of them. After giving his coordinates, Smith hears a noise behind him. The creature, still alive, attacks and kills him as he turns around.