A talented and idiosyncratic bio-mathematician, Danielle Flinders is staying at a seaside hotel on the coast of Normandy where she meets the British Agent James More awaiting transport to Somalia to search for Somali Jihadist leaders. The two develop a friendly bond during their stay and eventually a romantic relationship. Their conversations mostly revolve around her important undersea work, which she believes may have insights into life on other planets. As they are getting to know each other, More mostly diverts away from his profession and claims he is a water engineer for African non-profits. Her odd, introspective thoughts on life and death in the darkness are attractive and bewildering to More. At one point (with recent bombings on his mind, and stopping the terrorists) More becomes angry with Flinders' mono-dimensional, scientific view of life on earth. However, when they depart for their individual missions, it is clear that they have a deep affection for each other and plan to reunite.  Upon landing in Somalia, More is kidnapped by suspicious Somali terrorists. They do not believe he is a hydrology engineer working for a non-profit. He is shifted to various hiding places and tortured. He holds fast to his story and is promoted up to the next set of leaders, who are determined to break him. His captors, however, have not discovered that a fake bridge in his teeth hold some sort of device. He eventually is taken away by the group's main warlord after witnessing horrible war crimes against women and Somali residents who do not abide by strict Islamic Law. Dr. Shadid, patches him up but warns him that he will be killed eventually.  Meanwhile Flinders is aboard a research vessel in the Greenland Sea with a deep-sea submersible awaiting her turn to visit an undersea sea vent which may prove her theory about life through chemically-based life (lack of light). As the mission goes on, his lack of communication puts her a great unease and her performance on the mission is becoming an issue. She asks to leave the ship in order to get into better internet communication as she is obsessed with More. She is saddened and very distracted by his rejection and is resigned to losing him. She returns to the vessel in time for her long-awaited research voyage in the submersible.  More is taken to a beach enclave which is very close to a United States military base. The Jihadists plan to run a series of suicide bombings to kill the troops. The warlord insists he knows that More is an Mi6 agent and various torturous mind tricks still do not break him.  Simultaneously Flinders, at the bottom of the sea, finally collects samples for her studies. Suddenly the sub loses all power and attempts to reboot the batteries fail. Lit with only a dim laptop, she again recites her prescient gloomy thoughts on the ultimate darkness and life and death. The recitation puts the crew into a panic mode, but her thoughts move to the time at the hotel with More. The crew suddenly manages to engage the backup batteries much to everyones' relief including Flinders. The submersible rises slowly back to surface as she leaves her mission behind.  More, left sitting on the beach, exhausted, overhears plans of the attack as they construct their suicide vests. He turns away and extracts the bridge from his mouth which is a micro GPS beacon. While they are distracted he walks towards the ocean. Suddenly an Apache helicopter armed with missiles destroys the entire complex just as More jumps into the ocean and submerges himself against the shockwave.  The last scenes of the movie are More rolling over to face the bright sun. The film fades to white and Flinders' face dimly appears.