In medieval France, Quasi, a hunchback, attends work as a torturer along with his co-worker and "hut mate" Duchamp where they torture culinary student Michel. Meanwhile, the sinister King Guy is set to marry Queen Catherine in a planned ceremony to unite the kingdoms during Pope Week which is to be attended to by Pope Cornelius, with whom King Guy shares a staunch rivalry with. During Pope Week, a papal drawing is held, with the lucky winner getting a chance to meet the pope in person. Out of sympathy, Duchamp gives Quasi a ticket so that he can participate and it ends up being the winning ticket, causing Quasi to suddenly become popular and Duchamp visibly becoming jealous.  Catherine takes an interest in Quasi when he leads his coworkers in a brief rebellion against their boss Lucien and sees potential in him. Later, Quasi is invited to eat with King Guy where he asks him to assassinate Cornelius, much to his shock. He tells Duchamp and Michel and admits that he is going through with it or else he will be killed. When it comes time kill Cornelius, he suddenly orders him to kill King Guy during the union ceremony. When King Guy sees that Quasi has not killed Cornelius he threatens him, but decides to have the assassination done also during the ceremony. He tells his assistant Henri that he plans to kill Quasi afterwards, news that his heard by Catherine.  Quasi becomes depressed when he is approached by Catherine who tells him what she heard. They concoct a plan which Quasi tells Duchamp about. During the ceremony, Quasi ambiguously attacks King Guy and Cornelius, but Duchamp "kills" Quasi and becomes a hero. Quasi is whisked away to stay in a cave where Duchamp promises to look out for him. When he returns to the kingdom, nobody recalls Duchamp's heroic deed and are only saddened over Quasi's death. Catherine comes to visit Quasi and when Duchamp sees the two of them getting along, he leaves heartbroken. Duchamp gets drunk and tells Lucien that Quasi is still alive, causing him to tell Henri who comes and captures Quasi to have him tortured.  Catherine sneaks into the dungeon and kills Lucien before freeing Quasi. The two of them learn that they are both of royal blood and are cousins, news that excites them into having sex. Quasi escapes and seeks out Duchamp who confesses to outing him. Quasi escapes the guards while Duchamp is captured and ordered to be publicly executed. Quasi plans to leave town, but Michel manages to convince him to return and rescue Duchamp. They arrive at the execution where Quasi outs that both King Guy and Cornelius ordered each other's death and Catherine reveals that Quasi is of royal blood. A fight breaks out resulting in the deaths of Michel, who in his dying breath asks Quasi and Duchamp to remain friends, Henri and Cornelius' assistant Claude.  The people of France soon rally behind Quasi, not because of his royal lineage, but because they relate to him. King Guy and Cornelius both fatally stab one another and in their dying moments reveal that they were once lovers at university and broke up due to being cheated on by the same man. They die admitting that they still love each other. Quasi renews his friendship with Duchamp before he and Catherine admit their love for each other and become the new rulers of France. During the credits, Quasi and Duchamp hold a funeral for Michel, who also asked that he have a proper burial so that animals do not eat him, but they have trouble due to his height (he was constantly stretched via the rack). In a post-credits scene, Michel's hands get eaten by dogs.