The film opens with five different men commenting on their perspective of Izzy Klein. Sabrina, her very successful Hollywood actress sister, encourages her to finish her degree and then take a gap year.   At home in her boyfriend Aaron's NYC apartment, Izzy talks about Sabrina's proposal but he is less than supportive and quickly gets upset. He's insecure, equating her going with her sister with his band leaving him. Izzy goes, taking her things to Sabrina's hotel room. Sabrina sees Izzy in the morning, a total mess in the disastrous-looking corner of the hotel room, and offers to let her move in with her and her boyfriend in LA – under the stipulation that she pick up after herself.  Izzy has to work on a scene from a Shakespeare play to pass a course to complete her degree. A theatre minor, Ross, is assigned to work with her, and she's very attracted but he seems oblivious. The girls' mom, Deb, goes to Izzy's college graduation, and afterward they go to lunch with Amythyst, Deb's very young "soul walker". She's not much older than Izzy, a vegan into yoga who's recently taken Deb with her on a retreat. Deb is openly critical of Izzy's life decisions, although Izzy is supportive of her mother's relationship.  In LA, Izzy moves in with Sabrina and boyfriend Sebastian. They take her to a party where Sabrina plans to help her network, but before she can, Izzy hooks up with Aaron's former drummer, Logan. They continue seeing each other until he goes on tour a few months later.  Sabrina returns home after a film's promotional tour with Zack Ephron. Izzy's had a few unsuccessful auditions and her agent has dumped her, so she announces that she's finished. She spends the next few months in her room, binge-watching programs on her laptop.  Izzy goes out to see Logan's band when they return in December, coming face to face with Aaron, who's been invited to the gig. She goes off with Logan, who tells her he's back with his ex. Upset, she leaves and is followed out by Aaron and they argue.   The girls meet their mom for Christmas in Lake Tahoe – it's the first time Sabrina is meeting Amythyst, as she is blindly loyal to their dead dad's memory. Izzy meets a ski patroller, Mikey, and she convinces her sister and Sebastian, who are fighting over the tabloids' insinuations of her and Ephron, to go with her to meet Mikey for a drink. Deb and Amythist are already in the tavern when they arrive. Soon Deb has to leave so Sabrina, still upset with Sebastian, goes with her. Izzy goes home with Mikey, spending the whole night chatting, while Sebastian is left with Amythyst. The next morning, both Deb and Sabrina's relationships are over.   Izzy accompanies Sabrina on a film shoot in San Francisco as her assistant. Izzy chats with the film's director, Charlie, and lets him in on a secret that she and her mom are keeping from Sabrina. Over the next few months, Sebastian keeps sending Sabrina flowers, which she throws away. Izzy gets closer to Charlie, but when they're finally alone, she finds the painfully shy young director is so introverted he has never been completely intimate with anyone.   Sabrina finally gets a card with the flowers, convincing her to take Sebastian back. The sisters return to LA, with Izzy's gap year completed and a calm sense of optimism.