In 2008, the Reaper Virus is discovered and accidentally released in Scotland, infecting its entire population. Symptoms of Reaper include hysteria, homicidal urges, boils, sores and ebola. Unable to contain the outbreak or cure the infected, the British government erected a 30-foot wall isolating Scotland. The quarantine is a success, but the extreme method destroys diplomatic and economic relations between the UK and the rest of the world, turning it into a pariah state and leading to a dystopian future of mass unemployment, civil unrest and extreme inequality.   In 2035, authorities discover several people in London infected with Reaper. Prime Minister John Hatcher orders Captain Nelson of the Department of Domestic Security (DDS) to send a team to Scotland, where survivors have been located using satellite imagery. As there are survivors, the Government believes a cure may exist and identifies famed medical researcher Dr. Kane as the most likely founder. Nelson assembles a team led by Major Eden Sinclair, his most trusted operative. Sinclair is an orphan who came from Scotland following the chaos of 2008, and she hopes to learn if her mother survived. Other team members include Sergeant Norton, Sinclair's deputy; virologists Dr. Stirling and Dr. Talbot; and several DDS troopers.   The team crosses the wall to Glasgow. While searching a local hospital for survivors, they are ambushed by a group of marauders. Norton and Stirling escape, but the team suffers heavy casualties. Sinclair and Talbot are captured by a gang of brutal cannibals led by the power-hungry Sol, who plans to use Sinclair as leverage to cross the wall and invade England for vengeance. Talbot is immolated and eaten alive in a horrific sacrificial ceremony. With the help of Cally, another prisoner, Sinclair escapes and kills Viper, Sol's second-in-command. She finds Norton and Stirling, and they escape on a train. Cally reveals she and Sol are Kane's children. She also explains that Sol overthrew the previous Scottish government with his army of insurgents and refuted Kane's rule.   In London, the Reaper epidemic continues to spread, resulting in violent riots of infected people on the streets. As he is being evacuated from the city, Hatcher is infected by an attempted assassin. Michael Canaris, Hatcher's Machiavellian advisor, uses it as an excuse to quarantine Hatcher and take command as the de facto Prime Minister. Hatcher commits suicide rather than succumbing to the virus.   After leaving the train, Sinclair's group is kidnapped by soldiers armed with archaic weapons and armour. They are taken to a medieval castle and imprisoned. Their leader is revealed to be Kane, who tells Sinclair the truth. There is no cure - only people with natural immunity. After being left behind during the Scottish quarantine and losing his wife, Kane became a twisted and sadistic feudal lord who blamed science for the downfall of civilization. He sentences Sinclair, Cally, Norton and Stirling to death. In an arena-style battle, Sinclair is pitted against Telamon, Kane's executioner. Sinclair wins, killing Telamon before escaping with the others.  They find an underground facility in the forest which contains an intact 2007 Bentley Continental GT. Before being able to escape in it, Kane's knights arrive and kill Norton. Sinclair, Cally and Stirling manage to escape the facility but are soon intercepted by Sol and his gang. After a high-speed chase, Sol and many of his men are killed.   Sinclair calls Canaris and tells him she has a cure. Canaris arrives via helicopter, and Sinclair bargains with him to take Cally and Stirling back to London, where Stirling can use samples of Cally's blood to manufacture a vaccine. Canaris admits to Sinclair that he plans to hold back any cure until Reaper successfully eliminates much of the underclass in the form of social cleansing. Unbeknownst to Canaris, Sinclair secretly records his admission.   Rather than return to London, Sinclair goes to Glasgow in search of her mother but discovers she died during the quarantine. Nelson arrives, and Sinclair gives him the recording of Canaris. He releases it to the media, who broadcast it and disgrace Canaris, leaving his fate uncertain. Sinclair elects to remain in Scotland and uses Sol's dismembered head as a means to assume leadership over his band of marauders.