Brady and McKenzie (Mack) are surfing near her grandfather's beach hut in Waikiki. Mack then walks in on her grandfather and Brady watching their favorite film, a 1960s musical titled Wet Side Story, where surfers and motorcycle bikers battle for the privilege to hang out at Big Momma's beachside restaurant. When Mack's aunt comes by, she explains to Brady that before her mother died, Mack's aunt promised Mack's mom that Mack would attend a private school, and she is leaving the next day. Mack asserts that although going is not her choice, she feels it is what she has to do since it is what her mother would want. She tells Brady they will have to break up.  Before Mack leaves, she decides to surf a 40-foot wave that is about to hit the beach on her family's special surfboard. Alarmed, Brady gets on a jet ski and goes after Mack, but they both get swept away, eventually landing on another beach. They soon realize that they have somehow been swept inside the Wet Side Story film. Seizing the moment, Brady joins the film's cast in singing, to Mack's dismay ("Surf Crazy"). Brady relents and informs Mack that there will be a storm and giant wave that should bring them back home at the end of the film. They go into Big Momma's and introduce themselves to the surfers just before the bikers appear and start the surf and turf war ("Cruisin' for a Bruisin'"). Mack and Brady are then invited to come to a party at Big Momma's later that night.  That evening, Mack and Brady are arguing while the film's female lead, Lela (one of the biker girls), is singing on stage ("Falling for Ya"). Tanner, the male lead (one of the surfer boys), falls in love with Mack after she bumps into him, and Brady catches Lela when she falls off the stage. This interferes with the film's plot, in which Lela falls into Tanner's arms, not Brady's. They decide to make Tanner and Lela fall in love to fix things. Brady also tells Mack about the villains of the film, Les Camembert and Dr. Fusion, who are going to use a machine to affect the weather to make the surfers and bikers leave so they can control Big Momma's and turn it into a beach resort.  Lela and Tanner express their love for Brady and Mack, who subtly suggest to them that there may be someone else they are really meant to be with ("Meant to Be"). That night Mack joins Lela and the other biker girls for a sleepover, while Brady hangs out with Tanner and the surfer boys at Big Momma's. While talking about love, Brady and Mack's modern relationship views comes into conflict with those of the 1960s ("Like Me"); they fail to make any progress on getting Lela and Tanner together. The next night, Lela tells Mack that she would like to surf.  Mack and Brady realize that they are morphing into the film when Mack falls into the water and her hair does not get wet. They then begin to spontaneously sing and are unable to stop ("Can't Stop Singing"). They are then captured by Les Camembert and Dr. Fusion and taken to the villains' lighthouse lair.  Lela and Tanner fall in love with each other and soon realize that their friends have been kidnapped. They convince the bikers and surfers to team up and save Mack and Brady. Meanwhile, Mack admits that she is glad that she ended up in the film and does not have to attend private school. When Mack says she thinks Lela is braver than her, Brady denies that, saying that Mack is the bravest girl he knows.  The surfers and bikers free Mack and Brady and destroy the villains' machine. The film's plot returns to normal, and Mack and Brady realize they are able to return home. After saying goodbye to everyone, Mack and Brady get on the surfboard and returns to the real world, where no time has passed since they left. Mack successfully surfs the 40-foot wave. Mack's aunt is upset about her delaying their flight but accepts her decision to spend the rest of the year with Brady. Mack and Brady celebrate by singing on the beach ("Surf's Up").  In a post-credits scene, Lela, Tanner, Butchy, Seacat, Struts and Giggles wash up into the real world. A modern-day surfer thinks they are lost and allows them to use his cell phone, which they marvel at as they attempt to use it.