College student Becca begins to notice strange events on her campus, which become more apparent when she sees classmate Ari fall from a great height and appear unharmed. The two attempt to uncover the secrets of their campus while being antagonized by Elliot, the student who caused Ari to fall. Meanwhile, Ari's friend Arun and his girlfriend Izzy are blackmailed by the Griefers, a group of students who want complete free will on the campus. Arun confides in Greta, a new student he meets, that his parents are forcing him into an arranged marriage and he has locked his parents in his closet.  During a party, Elliot abruptly disintegrates and an earthquake appears to affect the campus. Only Becca, Ari, Arun, and Izzy appear to witness these events, however, and suddenly find themselves being hunted by the campus' security guards. Izzy now claims she cannot remember why she was being blackmailed and the Griefers are disintegrated before they can reveal her secret. Greta helps the guards capture Izzy, but is also disintegrated for letting Arun escape. Ari, Becca, and Arun attempt to leave the campus through its exit, only to end up back at the entrance, while a strange entity in the sky attempts to kill them. They manage to evade the entity and reunite with Izzy as they look for a place to hide.  It is revealed the events on the campus have been taking place inside a video game and the students are avatars controlled by players. Arun is a young Indian man who resents being forced into an arranged marriage, Greta is the young Indian woman arranged to marry Arun and was playing the game to meet him, Izzy is a male catfish and cross-dresser, and Ari's player has been using the game to generate income. Ari, Arun, and Izzy, however, all escaped from their players' control and gained sentience, while Becca is implied to be a virus who escaped quarantine and inadvertently infected the other three. Responsible for the attempts on their lives are the game's programmers to prevent them from infecting other avatars.  Upon realizing the truth, Arun, Izzy, Ari, and Becca question what their next move should be. After some deliberation, Becca states they will contact their creators.