Henry Copper is a traditional, uptight English author of romance stories, that focus on love, but are restrained in terms of passion. However, his one published novel is not selling, and he is somewhat lost as what to do. However, his publisher Jen contacts him to tell him that his book is now in fact selling—in one country, Mexico, and that he needs to go there to push the book on a three-city book signing tour.  Quickly getting his things together, he flies the next day to be met by the translator of the book, Maria, who takes him on a tour in her car with the Mexican publisher Pedro and her son and grandfather. Henry attends the first book signing, which is incredibly popular, but Henry is confused about people's reactions, and because everyone is talking about sex. Despite her best efforts to mislead him, including mistranslating people's conversation to tone down the content, Henry finds out that Maria has not just translated the book; she has re-written it completely, transforming it into a passionate sexy romance novel, which is why it is so popular.  Henry is distressed, but has to continue with the book tour. As time goes by, he comes to grip with the fact the book is in fact better with her contribution, while she has to deal with the fact that his name is also contributing to the book's success. A romance grows between the two, though Antonio, Maria's ex, tries to interfere. The publisher contacts Henry and tells him that he has 10 weeks to complete a new book, and he needs to work with Maria.  The two work together, and eventually have a romantic night together. However, after some interference from Antonio, Henry becomes jealous and returns to England. Henry eventually realizes he loves Maria, and returns to a book signing event in Mexico. He has arranged for both their names to be on the cover, so that now she is billed as co-author. At the booksigning event, despite some unsuccessful interference from the passionate Antonio, Henry reveals his true feelings for her, and their relationship is re-kindled. The film finishes with Maria becoming an author in her own right, now writing her own novels, although they are still together.