Elderly best friends Lou, Trish, Maura, and Betty are massive fans of the New England Patriots, particularly the team's star quarterback Tom Brady, having become fans in 2001 while celebrating Lou's successful completion of chemotherapy. 15 years later, the four women are celebrating the Patriots' victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC Championship Game and make plans for the Super Bowl LI watch party. The friends enter a competition for free tickets to the Super Bowl in Houston by sharing the stories of their Patriots fandom; Lou later announces their win and they prepare for their trip. On the day of their flight, the others break Maura out of her retirement home with help from her fellow resident, Mickey.  In Houston, they go to the NFL Experience, where Betty wins a chicken wing eating contest hosted by Guy Fieri, but loses the tickets. Trish meets former NFL player Dan O'Callahan and mutual attraction forms between them, but Trish is uncertain as she has not had a very successful love life; Dan invites her to a party, and the women decide to go upon learning about the loss of the tickets as Fieri will also be there. At the party, the women are given cannabis edibles which severely disorient them. Maura joins in on a game of poker in order to potentially buy new tickets, only to learn that the game is for charity; she gives her winnings to the charity of her top competitor, Gugu. Unable to find Fieri, the foursome return to their hotel.  The next day, the women go back to the NFL Experience but find it has closed down. They then go to the tailgate parties around NRG Stadium to see if they can buy any tickets from scalpers, but cannot afford them. Trish finds the radio hosts they won the tickets from and brings up the situation to them, but they are confused as they gave their tickets to a different group. Betty finds Fieri at the tailgate and recovers the bag with the tickets but when the women attempt to enter the stadium, the security guards reveal that the tickets are fake. Lou confesses that she bought the "tickets" online for an exorbitant price, as she wanted to have one last fun memory with her friends as she fears that her cancer may have returned. The other women console her and agree that even if they could not make it into the game, they are satisfied with all of their other memories. They run into Gugu, who sneaks them in under the guise of being backup dancers for Lady Gaga's halftime performance out of gratitude for Maura's actions the previous night.  They run into Dan who invites them into his box suite as his guests. Concerned as they watch the Atlanta Falcons build a 28–3 lead over the Patriots, they decide to sneak into the Patriots coordinators' booth. Betty hijacks the defensive coordinator's headset and gives him a playcall which leads to a sack, while Lou talks to Brady and gives him an inspirational message. The quartet return to their box suite and watch as Brady leads the Patriots to a victory. Maura reveals she made back the money Lou spent on the fake tickets by making a bet on the Patriots winning with the owner of the suite. The women are approached by security, and escorted to the Patriots' locker room, and thanked by the players for their dedication.  Three years later, Trish, Maura, Betty, and Lou, along with Mickey, and Lou's daughter Sara, prepare to watch Brady's first game with his new team the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and it is revealed that Lou is in good health. Sometime later, the four women sit on a beach with Brady discussing their retirements.