In the 9th century Northern Britain, a druid circle foresees a "falling star" from the constellation Draco, with Brude - one of the druids - summoning a Pict clan known as the "Painted tribe" to slaughter the druids and lead the clans to war against the southern kingdoms over Hadrian's Wall. A druid apprentice called Lorne escapes the druids' slaughter.  Gareth and a group of squires undergo their final tests on the wall's southern side to prove they are ready to be knighted. Gareth proves himself the best fighter but fails to collect enough money from the peasants; disappointed, his superior Sir Horsa refuses to knight him and tells Gareth that he owes him 100 crowns, after which he will give Gareth his knighthood. With nowhere to go, Gareth gets taken in by a peasant couple who could not pay him. That night, a meteor falls to Earth on the wall's north side, with Gareth stealing one of the knighted squires' swords and going to find the meteor after the couple told him it would contain riches.  Gareth finds the meteor but bursts open, revealing a dragon with nine eggs. The dragon proceeds to attack the Painted tribe members that also tracked down the meteor, with Gareth saving one of the dragon's eggs despite the warriors badly wounding him. Impressed by Gareth's mercy, the dragon shares its heart with him, saving Gareth's life. Then Brude curses the dragon before claiming the eggs. Lorne rescues Gareth and explains dragons and the bond Gareth now shares with the dragon. Gareth meets the rebel leader Rhonu, her uncle Traevor, and the clans who oppose Brude, hoping Gareth will get the dragon to fight for them. Gareth meets the dragon again, discovering it can now talk. Gareth names it Drago, who says he needs help retrieving the eggs. The group goes to Brude's campsite; Drago fails to rescue the eggs due to the curse rendering him powerless during daylight or by the light of a flame, and he explains his purpose to raise the young dragons he brought as friends to humanity. Gareth's attempt fails, with the painted clan capturing him. Brude intends to kill him but stops upon learning about Gareth's connection with Drago. With Rhonu and Lorne's help, he successfully escapes with the eggs.  Gareth convinces the group to head towards the wall, and Rhonu tells Traevor to gather the clans opposing Brude. Traveling with Rhonu and Lorne, the trio has to journey on foot after accidentally destroying an egg; Drago unsuccessfully tries teaching Gareth how to shadow-jump along the way. Lorne tells Gareth and Rhonu that Brude cast the Sorcerer's Curse on Drago, and Drago will be under Brude's control by the full moon. While attempting to rescue a group of the painted clan's prisoners, Gareth shows bravery, briefly freeing Drago from the curse before Brude recasts it. After Gareth sacrifices one of the dragon eggs and shadow-jumps to safety, the trio escapes Brude and the clan. Before reaching the wall, Gareth confesses to Drago that he is not a knight and the South has no respect for King Arthur's Old Code; however, Drago still considers Gareth his friend before leaving for Brude's location.  Reaching the gate, Gareth, Lorne, and Rhonu get arrested, and the dragon eggs seized upon learning of the Painted clan heading towards the wall. Drago, now under Brude's control, and the Painted tribe attack at the full moon, but Lorne's magic helps Gareth and Rhonu escape. As Gareth disrupts the sale of the dragon eggs and battles Sir Horsa to protect them, his brave act frees Drago, who then aids both the soldiers and the northern clans led by Traevor. Gareth slays Sir Horsa while Rhonu battles and kills Brude, although she herself is fatally wounded. With Brude dead and Drago free, the remainder of the Painted tribe retreats. After the battle, Gareth tends to Rhonu, who is saved by an unhatched dragon sharing its heart with her. Gareth becomes a knight and the settlement's leader, with peace achieved between the North and South as Hadrian's Wall is renamed the Dragon's Gate. Gareth and Rhonu express their love for each other, and the baby dragon that saved Rhonu begins hatching.