Military contractor Brian Gilcrest returns to Hawaii accompanying billionaire entrepreneur Carson Welch, who intends to develop local land into a space center. Following a celebrated military career that ended in shadowy deals in Afghanistan, the now-disillusioned Gilcrest has to negotiate a deal with the Native Hawaiians and support Carson's launch of a privately funded satellite. His mission is complicated by his former girlfriend Tracy, now married with two children, and his idealistic Air Force liaison, Captain Allison Ng, whose wide-eyed fascination with space reminds him of his own childhood.  Gilcrest and Ng meet King Dennis "Bumpy" Kanahele at his isolated community, asking for him to participate in a blessing ceremony that will allow Welch to build his center. Having unsuccessfully attempted to probe Gilcrest's background, Ng, who is of partial Hawaiian background, connects with the king and his companions, as she shares their spiritual view of the land and sky. Eventually, with her assistance, Gilcrest brokers a settlement with the king allowing for control over the territory of two whole mountains and free cell phone service for the area. The following night, Gilcrest and Ng have dinner at Tracy's house, where they meet her husband Woody and children, Grace and Mitchell. Later, alone in the kitchen, Tracy confesses to Gilcrest she planned a life with him before he abandoned her thirteen years earlier.  The next evening, at Carson's Christmas party, the commander of Pacific Air Forces, General Dixon, warns Gilcrest against ruining their deal. One of his men hands Gilcrest a thumb drive containing top secret information for the upcoming satellite launch. During the party, Gilcrest becomes attracted to Ng, who is having fun dancing with Carson. Afterwards, Ng joins Gilcrest in his hotel room while he recounts his near-death experiences in Kabul. The next day, Ng discovers that the satellite will actually carry a nuclear payload. When she tries to resign, she is told that it is a private operation run by Carson and that Gilcrest is aware of the details. She later tearfully confronts Gilcrest for deceiving her and the Hawaiians.  Meanwhile, Woody and Tracy confront each other about recent marital tensions, which he believes started as soon as Gilcrest arrived, and both agree to separate. The next morning, she arrives at the hotel and reveals that Grace is his daughter. Later that day, after the successful blessing of the new pedestrian gate, Gilcrest learns that the Chinese are attempting to hack the satellite's code to prevent the impending launch. He rushes to the command center and undermines the hackers' efforts. As he watches the satellite enter geosynchronous orbit, he realizes his actions have impacted Ng, whom he has come to love. Quickly, he orders a massive sonic upload to be sent to space, and both watch the satellite explode. Believing her continued association with him will ruin her promising career, he insists that they should end their romantic relationship.  Carson, displeased that his satellite has been destroyed, confronts Gilcrest, who reminds him that the sky is meant to be shared by all, and Dixon, also incensed by Gilcrest's actions, threatens to prosecute him. When Gilcrest returns to Tracy's, she reads him a moving love letter from Woody. He tells her she belongs with her husband, and she encourages him to pursue Ng. Arriving home, Woody notices Gilcrest, tells him he knows he is Grace's father, and asks him if he slept with Tracy while he was away, to which he responds that he slept with Ng. As Tracy is cleaning up the living room, she notices Woody and they happily embrace each other, with Grace and Mitchell joining them.  Dixon soon realizes Gilcrest was being truthful about the satellite carrying a nuclear weapons payload, praises his actions, and reveals that authorities have arrested Carson and will soon be taking him into custody. Outside the hotel, Gilcrest finds Ng, who is preparing to leave, professes his love to her, and promises to await her return to Hawaii. Later that night, Gilcrest watches Grace dance during her hula class. She notices him nodding at her, suddenly realizing that he is her father. With tears of joy in her eyes, she runs outside and embraces him before returning to her class.