In the early 1970s, William Hundert is a revered classics teacher at Saint Benedict's, a boys' boarding school for the sons of wealthy families. Hundert attempts to impart wisdom and a sense of honor to his students. He begins the new school year by making student Martin Blythe read a plaque that hangs over his door. It contains a statement by an ancient Mesopotamian ruler, Shutruk Nahunte. The plaque sings Shutruk Nahunte's praises, but Hundert explains that he contributed nothing of value to his kingdom, and as a result is virtually forgotten today.  Hundert's disciplined life and classroom are shaken when a new student, Sedgewick Bell, is enrolled in the middle of the term. Sedgewick, the underachieving, spoiled son of a U.S. senator from West Virginia, frequently disrupts class and does poorly in his homework, even breaks rules by traveling off campus, across the lake to St. Mary's, a girls' boarding school. Hundert meets with Sedgewick's father, Hiram Bell, to talk about his behavior, only to discover that Hiram has minimal interest in Sedgewick's education beyond the passing of his classes.  Hundert decides to help Sedgewick, and as they develop a friendship, Sedgewick's grades show improvement. Sedgewick works very hard to earn a spot in the school's annual "Mr. Julius Caesar contest", in which the top three students compete in a classics quiz in front of the entire school. However, Sedgewick only qualifies in fourth place. Hundert, not wanting his efforts with Sedgewick to be all for naught, raises his grade to qualify, which effectively excludes Martin, the rightful third-place contestant. During the competition, Hundert spies Sedgewick using crib notes, but the Mr. Woodbridge, the headmaster orders Hundert to ignore it, as Sedgewick's father is a major donor for the school. Hundert then deliberately asks Sedgewick a question on Hamilcar Barca which was not covered in class; it is answered correctly by another contestant who was reading about Roman wars on his own time, Deepak Mehta, who is crowned "Mr. Julius Caesar". The cheating is never made public, but the trust Sedgewick and Hundert had in each other is broken. Sedgewick returns to his old ways and barely graduates in 1976, with Hundert expressing deep disappointment that he failed Sedgewick.  Twenty-five years later, Mr. Woodbridge passes away, and Hundert is poised to become the new headmaster, but resigns in shock when a less experienced colleague gets the position due to his fundraising ability. Hundert is later told that Sedgewick, now a wealthy corporate CEO, will make a large donation to Saint Benedict's, contingent upon Hundert hosting a Mr. Julius Caesar rematch at Sedgewick's resort hotel on the Gold Coast, Long Island. The other members of Sedgewick's graduating class are also invited, and all enjoy the reunion. The three original contestants begin the competition, but as it progresses, Hundert realizes that Sedgewick is once again cheating by being fed answers through an earpiece. Hundert asks a question about Shutruk Nahunte, which all the students find laughably easy; however, Sedgewick is unable to answer it. Deepak answers correctly and once again wins. Afterward, Sedgewick formally announces that he is following in the footsteps of his father, now deceased, by running for a seat in the U.S. Senate. While the men applaud, Hundert is appalled that he was used for political grandstanding.  After the announcement, Hundert and Sedgewick run into each other in the men's room, leading to a confrontation between the two. Sedgewick tells Hundert that in the real world, dishonesty trumps principles, and that Hundert has let life pass him by. Sedgewick's words are overheard by his young son, who is shocked to learn the truth about his father. That evening at the hotel bar, Hundert apologizes to Martin and admits that he gave his spot to Sedgewick in the competition years ago. Martin tentatively forgives him. The following morning, the resort is apparently empty; however, Hundert is then greeted by a surprise party held in his honor by his former students, who present to him an award engraved with a quote about education. The men wave goodbye to Hundert as he departs in a helicopter, and he reflects that while he failed with Sedgewick Bell, he succeeded with other students.  Hundert returns to his old job teaching classics in the present-day Saint Benedict's, now coeducational and more diverse. His class includes Martin's son, Martin Blythe IV. Hundert peers outside the window to see the older Blythe gladly waving to his old teacher. Hundert has the younger Blythe read the plaque above the door.