Priscilla and Mary Beth Connolly are sisters living in the small fishing town of Easter Cove, Maine. Their mother Mary Margaret has died, and family friends Doreen Burke, Susie Gallagher, and Gail Maguire offer condolences at her wake. The sisters argue after Mary Beth learns that their mother took out a loan for the struggling family fishmonger business, which could jeopardize their house.  At a bar, Mary Beth drinks with a stranger named Gorski. Driving him home in his car, she is unnerved by a gun in his glove compartment, and crashes the car when he caresses her leg. Inspecting the damage, she sees blood and a woman's belongings inside the trunk, and flees. When Gorski follows her, she stabs him with a harpoon and bashes his head in with a brick.  Mary Beth returns home to a shocked Priscilla, who calls the police but hangs up. The sisters use Priscilla's knife to chop up Gorski's corpse to fit in a cooler box, which they throw in the ocean. The next day, Priscilla cannot find the knife, inscribed with 'Connolly Fish', and Mary Beth searches Gorski's shack but instead finds $50,000 in cash.  Local police officer Justin Brennan borrows the Connolly's boat to pick up a body washed up on shore, which is not Gorski but a prostitute named Dee, who was shot. Doreen, Susie, and Gail confront Dee's employer Enid Devlin, a longtime friend of Mary Margaret who runs the 'Oceanview', the town brothel. Refusing to give up her business, Enid goes looking for Gorski, who worked for her, and finds Priscilla's bloody knife.  Doreen, Susie, and Gail reach out to Alexis, one of Enid's girls who was close with Dee. Enid is questioned by Brennan and Officer Coletti, who has known Enid for years and warns off his younger partner, but Brennan is unconvinced. Enid's suspicions about the knife are confirmed when she notices Mary Beth spending the cash, and Priscilla's bloody boots, and she tells the sisters that they can always come to her for help.  Priscilla and Mary Beth visit Doreen, who reveals that years ago she, Susie, Gail, and Mary Margaret made a decision: to protect their own daughters from the men passing through the local port, they allowed Enid to operate the Oceanview as a brothel. Mary Beth shows Priscilla the money, and Brennan and Coletti find Gorski's car with the gun and bloody evidence inside.  Enid blackmails the Connolly sisters to return the money in exchange for the knife. The sisters decide to go to the police, but after Brennan, who is attracted to Priscilla, unexpectedly joins them for dinner and asks about the call made to the police the night of the murder, they change their mind about confessing. Alexis, knowing Enid owed Dee money, tells Susie that she believes Enid had Dee killed. Brennan learns that Mary Beth was seen with Gorski the night he disappeared, realizing Priscilla lied to him.  Gail, Susie, and Doreen warn Enid that she and her business have crossed a line. The Connolly sisters return the money to Enid, who drunkenly tells them how much she misses their mother, who left the brothel business for her daughters' sake. She offers them some of the money, but they refuse, leaving with the knife. Alexis, knowing that Dee stole the money from Enid, who had Gorski kill her, smothers Enid to death with a pillow.  Doreen spots the Connollys' cooler, which has floated to shore. On information from Gail, Susie, and Doreen, Coletti prepares to close down Oceanview. He and Brennan see the Connolly sisters walking in the street, but Brennan has changed his mind about Priscilla. She and Mary Beth pass by Gail, Doreen, and Susie, who are singing "Blow the Man Down" as they properly dispose of Gorski's body; the sisters realize Susie is washing out the incriminating cooler, and she smiles at them.