Newlyweds Christian and Anastasia are forced to cut their honeymoon short and return home after receiving news of a break-in at his corporate headquarters. Jack Hyde, Ana's former boss who was fired for sexual assault, stole some computer files.  Christian surprises Ana with a new house and has hired architect Gia Matteo to rebuild it for her. Ana is annoyed when Gia flirts with Grey in her presence. Ana later threatens to fire Gia if she keeps it up, forcing her to stop.  When Christian is away on a business trip, Ana disregards his wishes that she stay at home, and meets her friend, Kate Kavanagh, for a drink. Kate is dating Christian's older brother Elliot and fears Elliot may be having an affair with Gia, his business associate. Jack Hyde attempts to kidnap Ana when she gets home. Ana's new security team subdues him, and he is arrested.  After arguing with Christian about her night out with Kate, Ana berates him for being controlling and possessive, demanding more freedom. He later surprises her with a trip to Aspen, bringing along Kate, Elliot, Mia, and José. Elliot proposes to Kate, who accepts. It is revealed that Gia was only helping him choose the ring.  The newlyweds continue with their sexual experimentation, but it becomes complicated when Ana announces she is pregnant. Christian is disturbed, as he had other plans for their early years together. He leaves, going on a night-long drunken bender. After he returns, Ana discovers that Christian had texted and met his ex-lover and former BDSM dominant, Elena Lincoln. She gets angry and locks herself in the playroom for the night. He searches for Ana in the morning and they continue arguing, with Ana telling Christian how important the baby is to her.  Shortly after, Hyde is released on a $500,000 bond and phones Ana, demanding a ransom of $5 million in cash in two hours. He threatens to kill Mia, Christian's abducted sister, if his demands are not met. Ana must not tell anyone and bring the money alone. Ana takes a chequebook and revolver from Christian's desk and goes to the bank to withdraw the money.  The suspicious bank manager calls Christian. He thinks Ana is leaving him but then notices Mia's unknown whereabouts and Ana's sudden large cash withdrawal coincide with Hyde's recent release. Hyde instructs Ana to get into a car parked nearby and hand over her phone to the driver. She tricks Hyde by taking the bank manager's phone and slipping hers into the bag of money. She exits the back entrance to discover that the driver and Jack's accomplice is her co-worker, Liz.  At the drop-off site, a psychotic and vengeful Hyde attacks her, kicking her abdomen. Liz tries to stop him as Ana pulls out the revolver and shoots him in the leg. Christian and his security team, who tracked Ana's phone, arrive and apprehend Hyde and Liz. Ana blacks out as she hears Christian's voice.  She wakes up three days later in the hospital with Christian at her side. Though angry at her recklessness and still anxious about fatherhood, he realizes how important their baby is to her, and they reconcile. Christian's adoptive mother, Grace, assures him that Ana will not leave him. She returns home the next day.  Christian's private investigator, Welch, has left a report showing that Christian and Hyde had shared the same foster family, though he has no memory of this. Hyde was envious of Christian being adopted by the wealthy Grey family instead of him. Hyde also blackmailed Liz into being his accomplice. Christian and Ana also find out where his birth mother is buried. They visit her grave, and he lays flowers on it.  While Christian is playing his piano, Ana starts remembering their time together and decides she wants to play. After she sends Christian a text message, he joins her in the playroom.  Seven months later, they have a son named Teddy. Two years later, Ana is pregnant with their second child.