In Albuquerque, New Mexico, Lenore Harker leaves college to have a baby with her architect boyfriend, Frank. After discovering the baby has doubled in size in just a month, doctors extract the baby by caesarian section. After the doctor cuts the umbilical cord, the newborn baby Daniel goes on a rampage and slaughters the surgical team in the operating room. He afterwards crawls onto his mother's belly and falls asleep. Lenore and Daniel are found on the operating table, the room covered in blood. Lenore has no memory of what happened.   After questioning by the police, Lenore want leave and take Daniel home. Authorities arrange for a psychologist to help her regain her memory of the delivery. Soon, Daniel bites Lenore when she feeds him, revealing his taste for blood.   Daniel begins to attack small animals and progresses to killing adult humans when he is scared. One of his victims is the therapist who came to Lenore and Frank's house who wants to try hypnosis on Lenore but she refuses. She asks the therapist to leave. Lenore refuses to accept that her baby is a cannibalistic killer. Frank comes home from work to find Lenore sitting in the baby's room, but Daniel is not in his crib. The electricity goes off. Frank goes to check the fuse and at the same time searches for Daniel in the basement. Then he finds himself locked in. Daniel kills Marco, the police officer who came with Sergeant Perkins. Perkins finds Frank in the basement. As Perkins and Frank search for Daniel, Daniel suddenly attacks Perkins cause him to accidently shoot the gas which cause the explosion killing him in the process. While Lenore heard the noise, she finally stand up and begin looking for Daniel. Frank tricks Daniel to enter the trash can and captures him in the process. He takes him far away to the house now setting on fire. While Lenore calling out Frank and Daniel, he kept continuing screaming as Frank brings his gun about to shoot him. But cannot bring himself to shoot him as Daniel begins to cry. While Daniel continue crying, Frank was hesitating to open the lid. As Frank opens the trash can, thought Daniel died from lack of oxygen but Daniel leaps out of the trash can and attacks Frank.  Lenore finds Frank injured, she apologizes Frank for everything that happened to them. But then Daniel cries can be heard, Lenore finds Daniel and she brings him into the burning house. Gojng inside the baby room and sit on a rocking chair as she sings him to sleep. Frank and Chris watch helplessly as the house burns to the ground with Lenore and Daniel inside.