In 1943, Auschwitz Commandant Rudolf Höss lives with his wife Hedwig and their five children in an idyllic home next to the camp. Höss takes the children out to swim and fish, and Hedwig spends much of her time tending the garden. Servants handle chores around the house, while the prisoners' belongings are given to the family. Beyond the garden wall, gunshots, shouting and sounds of trains and furnaces are constantly heard. Höss approves the design of a new crematorium, which soon becomes operational. One day, Höss notices human remains in the river; he quickly gets his children out of the water before sending a note to camp personnel, chastising them for their carelessness.  Höss receives word that he is being promoted to deputy inspector of all concentration camps and must relocate to Berlin. He objects to no avail and withholds the news from Hedwig for several days. Hedwig, deeply attached to their dream home, begs him to convince his superiors to let her and the children remain. The request is approved and Höss moves out shortly afterwards. Hedwig's mother comes to stay, but is horrified at the sight of the camp and leaves in the night unannounced. A Polish girl who lives nearby sneaks out every night, hiding food at the prisoners' work sites for them to find and eat.  Months after arriving in Berlin, in recognition of his good work, Höss is tasked with heading an operation named after him that will transport hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews to Auschwitz to be killed. This allows him to move back to Auschwitz and reunite with his family. He vacantly attends a party celebrating the operation, and confesses to Hedwig over the phone that he spent his time there thinking about the most efficient way to gas the room.  As Höss leaves his Berlin office, he stops and retches repeatedly but is unable to vomit. In the present, a group of janitors are seen cleaning the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum before it opens. Back in Berlin, Höss resumes walking and descends down a dark stairway until he is out of sight.