Faybien Allen is a young gay man of Haitian descent living in Jersey City. Lacking direction in his life, Faybien constantly questions his aspirations as he is not quite sure who he is. Still living at home with his overbearing, homophobic father and grieving the loss of his mother, his self-esteem begins to sink as he works at a dead end job and misses an important job interview. Faybien finds love and support through his friends, Greg Marsh and Amera Jones. Greg, a free-spirited bisexual and an amazing sous chef, is Faybien's best friend. He serves as a voice of reason to Faybien, always telling it like it is through his self-confidence. Amera is an outspoken, aspiring singer with a big heart. She and Greg are polar opposites and bicker as if they were a married couple but both are always there for Faybien in time of need. When Faybien is overwhelmed by the temperament of his father, he finds himself staying with Greg on numerous occasions.  Adding fuel to the trio's mix, Greg introduces Faybien and Amera to his new roommate, Jay Timber. Jay comes off as a man of mystery at first with his warm personality but his shady past becomes present when he solicits sex in the apartment behind his roommate's back. Jay delights in causing extreme amounts of trouble and is a self-declared "bitch".  Amidst his self-loathing and desperation, Faybien has a chance encounter with Lonnie Wilson, a young political activist and businessman. Unlike Faybien, Lonnie is openly gay and confident. He shows a strong interest in pursuing Faybien. Faybien's insecurities hinder him from wanting to establish a mutual connection with Lonnie. Lonnie continues to make several attempts at helping Faybien to overcome his fears in accepting the man that he knows he can be.  Over time, Faybien does his best to smooth his relationship with his father while simultaneously entering into a relationship with flirty Lonnie. But Faybien ultimately decides that his sure of what he wants, ending their budding relationship.