After finishing second to Walter Mondale in the 1984 Democratic Party presidential primaries, former Senator Gary Hart is now the widely accepted front-runner in the 1988 Democratic Party presidential primaries. Leading up to the formal launch of his campaign in April 1987, some of Hart's campaign staff are concerned that he won't open up about himself (letting the public "get to know him"), instead focusing on ideas and policy. Meanwhile, at The Washington Post, editors and journalists discuss whether the paper should report on Hart's marital problems and rumoured promiscuity.  After the first week of campaigning, Hart joins his friend Billy Broadhurst for a yacht cruise from Miami to Bimini on the Monkey Business, where he meets Donna Rice, a young woman. Days later at an array of pay-phones in an airport, two reporters (A.J. Parker of the Post and Tom Fiedler of the Miami Herald) overhear Hart's end of a conversation, presumably with Rice.  On the campaign plane, Hart gets to know Parker, offering paternal advice and giving the young reporter a Tolstoy novel to learn about the Soviets. Later, in Iowa, Parker offends Hart during an interview by asking whether he has "a traditional marriage". Hart responds: "You want to know what I'm doing in my spare time, A.J., is that it? Follow me around, put a tail on me. You'd be very bored."  Meanwhile, in Miami, Tom Fiedler has received an anonymous call from a young woman alleging that Hart "is having an affair with a friend of mine". Fiedler dismisses the call at first, but ends up tracking two women on a flight to Washington, D.C., and staking out Hart's townhouse, where he sees Hart go out and come back with Rice. Hart eventually notices Fiedler's car and there is a confrontation, during which Fiedler asks about the woman and Hart denies any wrongdoing and asserts that his personal life is nobody's business. Knowing the story will hit the news, Hart phones his wife, Lee Hart, and apologizes.  After the story appears in the Herald, Lee and daughter Andrea are besieged by reporters outside their home in Troublesome Gulch, Colorado. Meanwhile, in D.C., campaign staffer Irene Kelly is tasked with befriending Rice to try to get information from her, after which she sends Rice back to Miami, where her privacy is torn to shreds by the press.  Hart argues with his campaign manager, Bill Dixon, about whether to respond to the Herald story. Dixon thinks Hart needs to speak out to control the damage, but Hart vehemently argues that any response at all would legitimize the reporters' action and set a dangerous precedent.  The Post receives an anonymous package with photos taken months previous of Hart with another woman. Parker argues that reporting on this aspect of Hart's life is not good journalism, but the editor, Ben Bradlee, overrules him, indicating that they need to change with the times.  While preparing for a press conference, Hart's campaign team notes that polls show a majority of the public believes the media has gone too far in their coverage of Hart and that a candidate's marital indiscretions are irrelevant to their qualifications for being president. When told that reporters may ask whether he has ever cheated on his wife, Hart strongly retorts, "It's nobody's goddamn business!", which the team agrees is the perfect answer. Then Lee arrives, and the staff leaves. She tells Hart that she may leave him eventually, but not now.  At the press conference, it is Parker who asks whether Hart has committed adultery. Instead of giving the rehearsed answer, Hart weakly stammers that he doesn't think it is a fair question. Later, Parker asks for comment from the campaign on the anonymous photos the Post received.  Seeing how upset Lee is over the public scrutiny and its negative impacts on their family, Hart drops out of the campaign. Onscreen text states that "Gary and Lee Hart remain married to this day".