Renowned architect Billy Herrera and his wife Ingrid are a Miami-based Cuban-American couple with two daughters, recent law school graduate Sofia and rebellious aspiring fashion designer Cora.  At couples' counseling, Ingrid tells Billy that she has had enough of his workaholic attitude and stubbornness and wants a divorce; their counselor tells them to tell their daughters right away. Ingrid wants to announce it later that day after Sofia arrives for a visit, but Sofia first announces that she is engaged to be married to fellow lawyer Adan Castillo and that they want to marry in one month.  Billy and Ingrid agree to keep their divorce a secret until after the wedding. He is hesitant about Sofia's nuptials and her desire to move to Mexico with Adan to work at a non-profit instead of remaining in the United States.  Billy disagrees with the couple as he wants a big, traditional Cuban wedding while Sofia and Adan want a smaller ceremony. Meanwhile, Sofia asks Cora to make her wedding gown and her bridesmaids' dresses, disgruntling their eccentric wedding planner Natalie Vance.  Adan's wealthy father Hernan and the rest of his family arrive in Miami. He and Billy disagree further on the cost and scale of the wedding; Hernan offends him by offering to pay for what Billy cannot afford. He then throws a lavish engagement party on his yacht instead.  Hernan has also obtained a lavish mansion on a Miami island and offers to host the wedding there, causing a shouting match between him and Billy, who admits his dislike of Adan and his family. Billy appeases Sofia at her dress fitting and confides the divorce to Adan at the latter's bachelor party.  A storm warning threatens the upcoming ceremony. The families proceed to the wedding rehearsal, where Cora overhears Billy talking about the divorce to his cousin Junior and immediately breaks the news to the rest of the guests. Sofia is disgusted that her parents and Adan have been hiding it from her, but reconciles once more with her father and agrees to push through with the wedding. That stormy night, the Herrera family spends the night together.  The next day, the weather has cleared, but the storm has collapsed the only bridge to the wedding venue and has destroyed much of the set-up. The Herreras and Castillos pool their resources to throw the wedding last-minute at the Herrera home, with Natalie officiating. Sofia and Adan marry with Billy's full approval, while Billy and Ingrid rekindle their romance.