Three American friends travel across the border to a secret outdoor party in Mexico. While there, they visit Jonny's drug dealer Pepe, an American who has set up a drug dealing business in Mexico. While they are waiting, a local mechanic named Carlos offers to fix a bump on their car but they decline the offer. Andrew uses $2,000 he stole from his fast food job to buy a large amount of pills. He explains that he needs money to solve his financial problems at home and Jonny offers to help him swallow the bags of pills out of sympathy.  While at the border crossing, Jonny experiences extreme pain from the bags rupturing in his stomach so Andrew quickly turns the car around and drives to a hospital but is too afraid to go inside. When Jonny dies in the car, Andrew and Melissa hide his body in the front storage compartment of the car.  They drive back to Pepe's to ask for something to flush out the pills in Andrew's stomach. Pepe gives Andrew muscle relaxers and gives Melissa a tranquilizer to relax, then forces them to wear costumes for his party. During the party, Andrew breaks into Pepe's stash room and steals all of his money, nearly $20,000. While attempting to leave, he is caught by Pepe's guard Raul, who demands to look in the front storage compartment of the car. He finds Jonny's body and accidentally shoots it, then he tells Andrew and Melissa to lie down and prepares to shoot them. Raul looks away to shout to Pepe and Andrew knocks him over with a shovel, then Andrew and Melissa escape to the car and drive away.  They hide Jonny's body in a blanket off a dirt road in the hills then drive to a hotel for the night. During the night, Andrew leaves and wakes up Carlos (as well as his mother) to help him fix the broken window on the car to avoid suspicion at the border. Melissa notices him leaving and she leaves with the car herself. Carlos informs Pepe and Raul, who show up and beat Andrew, demanding the money. He says that it is in the car but they are unable to find the car there and assume that Melissa has intentionally left with the money. When they find her at the border control, Andrew hits the gas pedal to cause a collision and get the attention of the police. The police arrest Pepe for holding a weapon and Andrew stops at Melissa's car to say goodbye then gives the stolen money to a young girl selling flowers. He is stopped by the police and told to get on the ground but when he lifts his shirt to expose his handgun he is shot and killed. Melissa continues across the border to the United States.