Alicia (Juno Temple) arrives in Chile for her first international trip to join her cousin Sara (Emily Browning), who is studying there. They plan to embark on a road trip with Sara's boyfriend Agustín (Agustín Silva), his sister Bárbara (Catalina Sandino Moreno), and his friend Brink (Michael Cera). However, Sara gets an urgent call about an important exam and has to leave Alicia behind. Despite feeling anxious about being left alone with the group, Alicia is comforted with the assurance that Sara will return the next day. Meanwhile, the rest of the group continues their journey to the island where they'll be staying.  During the trip, unexpected events leave Alicia feeling uneasy about her presence among the group. Upon arriving at the island, Alicia becomes increasingly isolated due to the absence of phone signal and Brink's annoying behavior. The next morning, Agustín invites Alicia on a walk, and they witness Brink killing a macaw with an air rifle. Upset, Alicia runs off and manages to reach Sara on the phone, who informs her that she won't be able to join them for another day. Feeling frustrated, Alicia returns to Agustín and Brink and encounters a sheepdog that later disgusts her by humping her leg. Brink laughs at her reaction, and Agustín chases the dog away.  That night, Brink continues to mock Alicia about the dog incident and playfully wrestles with her until she kicks him in the nose out of fear. Feeling unwelcome and humiliated, Alicia calls Sara again and tearfully reveals her discomfort. Sara confesses that she didn't have a test but had an abortion instead. Later, the group goes cliff diving, but Alicia becomes extremely fearful and has a vertigo attack. Despite Sara's concern about Alicia's lack of sleep, the group proceeds with their plans. That night, Agustín hypnotizes Alicia, but she snaps out of it when Brink tells her to put her hand in the fireplace and gets burned.  After Alicia's hypnosis incident, Sara puts her to bed and leaves with Agustín. Alicia then begins to suffer from hallucinations of Sara and Brink in her room. Later that night, she hears the others talking about her disparagingly and finds the air rifle in Brink's room, but ends up forcing his face into her crotch before leaving. When Sara returns, she notices that Alicia has covered all the mirrors. The next day, Brink confronts Alicia, but she denies the incident. Alicia runs off and breaks down in tears in front of Melda, who takes her to her home to treat her burn. Alicia is returned to the cabin and put to bed again. Sara suggests taking Alicia to a hospital, but they discover she has escaped and consumed all of Bárbara's sleeping pills. They find her at the cliff face and try to talk her down, but she ultimately jumps in and is recovered.  The group brings Alicia to Melda after she suffers a mental breakdown. Melda takes her to the island's only healer, who performs an ancient ritual involving a lamb and music. Alicia becomes calm and convinced she has died, but the healer assures Sara that it's only temporary. The film concludes with the group taking Alicia to the mainland on a motorboat as Sara tries to revive her.