Margaret is an American expatriate living in Tokyo. She works at a Japanese academy during the day teaching prospective flight attendants how to speak English. She spends her nights getting drunk with fellow expatriates Ines and Liam, and seeks out submissive sexual encounters with random men in the city's numerous love hotels. Her misadventures cause her to sometimes show up to work in a daze and disheveled, drawing the concern of her manager, Nakamura. However, Nakamura sees something of her younger self in Margaret and is sympathetic.  One day, Margaret crosses paths with a Yakuza enforcer named Kazu, and the two begin a relationship. Margaret is at first taken aback by Kazu's revelation that he is about to get married, but she continues with him after he admits that his marriage is more out of duty than love. Margaret confides to Kazu that she does not have a family: her father left when she was a child, her mother died from cancer, and she has a schizophrenic brother. She came to Japan to be alone.  On the day of graduation for Margaret's students at the flight academy, Kazu asks Margaret to spend the entire day with him in Kyoto. Initially reluctant to skip graduation, Margaret agrees when he says he will not get another day, and they take the train. He brings her to the Kiyomizu-dera temple and shows her the "Buddha's womb", a stone illuminated at the end of a pitch-black tunnel. Kazu explains the symbolism of being reborn by reaching the stone and says that he has brought Margaret there hoping to help her let go of her trauma; but Margaret seems unaffected. On the train ride back to Tokyo, Kazu leaves the train while Margaret is asleep, leaving her despondent and desperate to find him when she wakes up. When she returns to work the next day, she finds that she has been dismissed and replaced.  Margaret spirals down further when Ines reveals to her that she is leaving Japan. Following numerous meaningless sexual encounters, Margaret spots Kazu with his family by chance one day and follows him into a love hotel. Kazu reprimands Margaret for following him, telling her nothing can happen between them. When Margaret insists that she loves him, they have sex one more time before he sends her away, leaving him saddened and conflicted. When Margaret returns to her apartment she finds an eviction notice. She desperately takes a job as a bar hostess for drunken businessmen, but finds herself unable to participate and leaves without getting paid.  Now homeless and at rock bottom, Margaret is found on the street by Liam's girlfriend Louise, who reveals that Liam has been deported. After sharing a drink with Louise, Margaret gets drunk and begins wandering around Tokyo aimlessly at night until she notices of a strange man following her. She asks him to take her to a love hotel. She tells him that she likes to be submissive. On his orders she strips naked and lies down, the stranger then tying her hands and feet to the bed. When he suggests that he could kill her, she begs him to do it, but Kazu comes into the room to rescue her, having followed her. Grateful for being rescued, Margaret decides to start anew by leaving Tokyo. On the plane, Margaret notices Tamiko, one of her former students, as one of the flight attendants and they smile at each other while Tamiko demonstrates safety procedures before the plane takes off. Margaret calls Kazu to tell him she now understands the symbolism of the "Buddha's womb" and finally feels reborn, saying goodbye to him for good.