CIA dirty deeds man John Dresham (Luke Goss) and black ops organiser Anthony Chapel (Roger Guenveur Smith) hire mercenary John Seeger (Steven Seagal) and his crew for a mission in the French-controlled Galmoral Island in Southern Africa. Ostensibly, the purpose of the operation is to aid the local population, though in reality Dresham and Chapel plan to seize and profit off the island's rich oil and diamond reserves.  Seeger gets steamed when the mission goes wrong. Some of his soldiers, against Seeger's orders, take the French Ambassador (Rudiger Eberle) and his family hostage for leverage and later blow them all up. French troops arrive and attack the mercenaries, resulting in his best friend "Radio" Jones (Zaa Nkweta) being killed. Maxine Barnol, his spy posing as a journalist, suggests CIA involvement.  Seeger heads back to the United States and goes to the home of Radio's wife Shondra (Faye Peters), tells her the news, and then promises her that he will take care of her and her young son Eddie (Tumi Mogoje). While there he kills two of Dresham's men sent to kill him and discovers Dresham's implication.  Chapel again hires the team of mercenaries, kidnapping Shondra and Eddie to force John into cooperating. The mission involves rescuing Kamal Dasan, the son of prominent gun runner Ahmet Dasan (Peter Butler), who has been arrested and thrown into the Randveld Prison outside of Cape Town, South Africa, and is due to be extradited to the United States.  Dresham discovers the job but not its object and when he bumps into Maxine he forces her to work for him instead of Chapel. Maxine leads him to believe that the target is the safe of a bank in Cape Town and Dresham uses his CIA influence to be shown round the security installation. Maxine listens attentively and takes photos.  Seeger leads Dresham in circles but when the mercenaries break into the prison they discover that Kamal is not there any more. In the Cape Town bank, Seeger persuades the Greek government to arrest Kamal's father, then escapes making sure Dresham will be arrested too.  Finally, with a few loyal members of his team, John rescues Shondra and Eddie and kills Chapel and his guards.