In Los Angeles in 2003, after an evening of playing poker with another couple, Debbie Dunn and Peter Coleman have sex and spend the night together in her home.  Twenty years later, Debbie and Peter are best friends. He has moved to New York City and become a successful businessman, while she still lives in Los Angeles and works as an accountant at her son Jack's middle school.   Debbie calls Peter on his birthday, and they discuss her plans to head to New York soon to complete an accounting program to help her get a better-paying job. Debbie's ex-husband's actress girlfriend, Scarlet, is to watch Jack for the week but flakes when she is offered a role in Vancouver for two weeks. Peter, who has just broken up with his girlfriend and is between jobs, offers to go to LA to take care of Jack.  In California, Peter learns the extent of Debbie's overprotective parenting and decides to help Jack loosen up a little. Peter gets skybox tickets to a Los Angeles Kings game and encourages Jack to invite along two classmates, but this goes awry when they ignore him.  Meanwhile in New York, Debbie attends her accounting classes and meets Peter's ex-girlfriend, Minka, who invites her out for drinks. At the bar, Minka helps her catch the attention of book publisher Theo Martin. She also shows Debbie Peter's unpublished novel. After reading the manuscript, Debbie pretends to be a freelance editor as she tries to convince Theo to give it a chance.  Peter grows closer to Jack and convinces the hockey coach to let him try out for the team. Meanwhile, Debbie goes out on a date with Theo, which ends with them spending the night together. Debbie accidentally sets off the apartment's remote camera, leading to Peter witnessing them. Disturbed, he goes to a bar and meets an old girlfriend but cannot bring himself to sleep with her. He realizes that he is in love with Debbie.  On Debbie's last day in New York, she passes her exam and unintentionally discovers Peter's hidden mementos of her. When Debbie meets with Theo, he tells her he has gotten her an interview with Macmillan so they could potentially date. However, she confesses that she is in love with someone else.   In Los Angeles, Jack's hockey tryout goes well, but he ends up injured. Peter calls Debbie, and she is enraged that he endangered her son although Jack appears to be okay. She rushes to leave and get back home to Jack and tells Peter to be gone before she arrives.  Peter and Debbie come face-to-face at LAX. After a heated argument, he declares that he is deeply in love with her, and has been since they met, and they kiss passionately. Six months later, they are married, Peter has become a published author and moved in with them in California. She is an editor at an indie publishing house, and Jack is on the hockey team.