David Robey, a wealthy trader and serial killer, blackmails and kidnaps cleaner Callum Aldrich. DCI John Luther is assigned to the case and promises Callum's mother, Corinne, he will find her son. Concerned about his involvement, Robey digs up dirt on the various illegal acts Luther has committed as a police officer, resulting in him being fired, prosecuted and imprisoned.  Years later, Robey coaxes Corrine and the parents of other victims to a house where he burns their children's corpses. Corrine visits Luther in prison, admonishing him for not finding her son's killer. Robey sends a recording of him murdering Callum to Luther in prison via a radio frequency. Luther informs DCI Odette Raine, the new head of Serious and Serial Crime, of the broadcast. He liaises with prison guards and former associate McCabe to break him out. Raine brings in retired DSU Martin Schenk as a consultant. Luther traces Robey to Piccadilly Circus, where Raine deploys armed police SCO19. The two confront him there, but some people he has blackmailed cause a distraction by publicly killing themselves. Robey escapes into the London Underground after fighting Luther and murdering an armed policeman.   Robey kidnaps Raine's daughter, Anya. He blackmails Raine to bring him Luther in exchange for Anya’s life. Raine meets with Luther, points a gun at him, and forces him to climb into a car trunk. She has a change of heart and reluctantly agrees to work with him. They visit Robey's ex-wife Georgette, discovering he owns property abroad. DS Archie Woodward, Raine's subordinate, is blackmailed by Robey into killing Georgette but is intercepted by Schenk. Archie commits suicide. Luther and Raine travel to Robey's mansion in rural Norway, where they discover he tortures kidnapped victims to death on a live stream called "The Red Bunker". The two are overpowered, and Robey tries to force them to hurt each other to save Anya. Luther reveals Georgette told the police the location and they are en route. After a brutal fight, the three are able to escape the bunker, and Luther chases Robey into a frozen lake, where Robey drowns. Luther is rescued by police divers and Schenk. Recovering from his injuries back in London, he is approached by a senior official with MI5, who, it is implied, offers him a job in lieu of going back to prison.