Teenager Aden (Higa) has been training as an agent with the "Agents of Secret Stuff" (A.S.S.), a secret society of spies, his whole life. To receive his "Honorary Operative License Entitlement" (H.O.L.E.), he must fulfill one more mission for A.S.S. operative Tracy. Aden is given the undercover mission to protect Taylor (Arden Cho), a high school student who, for unknown reasons, has been targeted by the opposing assassins group, the "Society Involving Not-So-Good Stuff" (S.I.N.S.).  At first Aden, under the false name Jose McDonald, has difficulty fitting in with the high school scene, and continuously attempts to protect Taylor from normal things that he perceives as threats, causing more harm than good. On the fourth time protecting Taylor, Aden eventually reveals that he is an A.S.S., and explains the backstory of the S.I.N.S. and the A.S.S. When Taylor tells him to leave, he is forced to explain his actions, and she sympathetically helps him learn how to be a normal teenager.  On the day of the school dance, Aden again tries to save Taylor's life from Melvin (D-Trix), angering Taylor. Aden leaves Taylor with Melvin, only to realize Melvin is actually the S.I.N.S. assassin, which eventually leads to a chase scene to a warehouse. At the warehouse, Melvin ties Taylor to a chair, and when Aden eventually reaches the building, Melvin reveals that Taylor is part of the A.S.S.'s plans, which eventually leads to a fight between Aden and Melvin, which tilts to Aden's favor, until Melvin resorts to attacking Aden with a mousetrap. After Aden falls to the ground, Melvin attempts to finish him off with an axe. However, Taylor is able to break free from the chair, leading to a fight between the two.  Melvin was later defeated by Taylor, but eventually leaps at Aden and Taylor, but was later attacked from behind by Tracy. Tracy eventually congratulates Aden for "bringing out Taylor's full potential". Eventually, two other A.S.S. agents arrive, consisting of Aden's step-step-brother-in-law, and X (the A.S.S. founder), who reveals to Taylor that he is her father. X then also congratulates Aden, and awards him the H.O.L.E., making him an official A.S.S. Aden then asks Taylor to go to the homecoming dance with him, but Taylor was able to beat him to it, but when the two reach the school, the dance has already ended. Aden eventually sets his watch to JR Aquino's "You and I" and asks Taylor to dance. While dancing, a bush starts making noise, startling the two. Before they go investigate, the two share a kiss, ending the movie.