Anne Marie and her fourteen-year-old sister, Penny, and good friends Eden and Lena, live in a small house on the North Shore. They all have been helping raise Penny, since her mother moved to Las Vegas with her boyfriend. While Penny is at school, Anne Marie, Eden and Lena work as maids in a super-luxury resort hotel. They are also surfers. Anne Marie rises every morning before dawn to train for a possible surfing comeback. As a child, she had been a rising star in women's surfing until she suffered a near-fatal wipeout. This has temporarily halted her progress; now when she is in really big powerful surf, she has a deep-seated fear of dying. Her friends, especially Eden, encourage her to try again to become a professional surfer.  Anne Marie is invited to join the surfing competition at a famed North Shore surf spot, the very challenging Banzai Pipeline. If she can do well enough to gain the attention of a sponsor, it would lift her and her friends out of the near-poverty in which they live. As the Pipeline competition gets closer, Anne Marie struggles to keep her young sister Penny from running wild and tries to deal with her issues.  Anne Marie meets Matt Tollman, a National Football League quarterback who is in Hawaii for the Pro Bowl. Matt is instantly attracted to the surfer. After a few encounters, Matt says he wants to learn to surf, and Anne Marie agrees to teach him and several of his rowdy teammates to surf for $150 per hour, with Lena, Eden and Penny acting as coaches. Anne Marie sees Matt when she goes to the hotel room to get the money, but a call comes in. Anne Marie asks if it is Matt's wife, but he explains it is his niece. Later, they sleep together.  Anne Marie's acceptance of an outsider as her boyfriend causes friction between her and some young male surfers on the North Shore. Eden points out to Anne Marie that her current interest in Matt has weakened her commitment to training for the Pipeline contest. Anne Marie overhears very demeaning comments about herself from some of the other football players' wives and girlfriends staying at the hotel.  Anne Marie confronts Matt about their situation. She soon resolves to step up her game, fully committing herself to the Pipeline Masters. On the day of Pipeline, Anne Marie wipes out during her first heat, but she advances to the next heat after narrowly beating pro surfer Kate Skarratt. She is shaken, but Matt tells her how he failed in his first game as an NFL quarterback, which helps her control her wavering confidence.  Determined, although still apprehensive, Anne Marie returns to the water. Competing in the same heat is Keala Kennelly, one of the first professional female surfers. While Keala surfs the first few sets of waves well, Anne Marie is still reluctant to try one, visions of her near-drowning incident holding her back. Keala finishes her turn, then paddles back out to take Anne Marie under her wing. Keala encourages her to ride the best wave of the day, and Anne Marie rides it perfectly, scoring a perfect ten. Although Anne Marie cannot advance to the next heat, she has regained her lost confidence and attracted the attention of sponsors, one of whom immediately offers to have her join the Billabong women's surf team.