Michael Woods is an American parolee who arrives in Johannesburg, after being released from prison, to meet up his wife Angie who works in the U.S. embassy.  Michael orders a rental car at the airport but is lost while on his way to the embassy. During his trip, Michael comes across a cellphone and a suppressed pistol inside. Afterwards, a police detective calls Michael who advises him to hand in the vehicle in exchange for a replacement.  Michael agrees to deliver the car only to find a gagged woman inside. Both Michael and the woman are soon attacked upon reaching the rendezvous point, causing Michael to drive away from the firefight. After several escape attempts, the woman reveals herself to be Rachel Shabangu, a prosecutor who gathered evidence against a criminal named Rhodes, due to which the latter kidnapped her. Furthermore, the police, including the detective, are on Rhodes' payroll. Michael and Rachel try to get help from her friends to no avail.  Helpless, Michael decides to drive to the courthouse with Rachel before realizing Angie might become involved. He succeeds in making sure Angie stays inside the embassy but Rachel is shot in the process. Before dying, she records her testimony using Michael's phone and entrusts him to expose Rhodes and the corrupt police department.  Saddened by Rachel's death, Michael leaves her body behind and is contacted by the detective who reveals he has framed Michael for Rachel's murder. Michael successfully dodges the police and gets his car sprayed to avoid being recognized. Following Rachel's earlier suggestion, he contacts a court judge who agrees to help Michael but also warns him to avoid going to the court as the police  are already there and waiting. When the phone runs out of battery, Michael uses the car adapter to recharge it.  Michael successfully makes it to the courthouse as more police arrive, resulting in a hostage situation as Michael holds a news reporter at gunpoint. However, the detective shows up and, trying to defuse the situation, shoots Michael at point blank. As the detective argues with his other police officers for injuring Michael, Rachel's testimony is seen playing over the reporter's microphone. With Rhodes' criminal activity exposed, he, the detective, and the rest of the corrupt officers are arrested. As the film ends, the titular vehicle is seen in the parking lot while news reports praise Michael for his heroism and bravery. It is implied that he had reunited with Angie while in critical care.