During the California Gold Rush, a beautiful young woman called Angel works as a prostitute in the fictional town of Pair-a-Dice. Despite being the object of desire for the local men, she survives through hatred and self-loathing. Meanwhile, a visiting farmer named Michael Hosea prays for God to send him a wife. Later that day, he sees Angel walking through town and falls in love at first sight.  Flashbacks reveal that Angel's real name is Sarah and that she knows only abuse from men. As a child, she overhears her father, Alex Stafford, saying that she should never have been born. Sarah learns that her father is married and her mother, Mae, is his mistress. Alex eventually cuts off support for Mae, obliging her to become a prostitute and eventually become sick and die. Distraught, Sarah rejects her mother's Catholic faith. Afterward, Mae's pimp sells an 8-year-old Sarah to a man named Duke, who renames her "Angel" and forces her into prostitution. One night, when Angel is a teenager, one of her customers is her father, and she knowingly has sex with him to punish him for how he treated her mother. He does not recognize her, but when he finds out the next morning, he commits suicide. This prompts Angel to escape from Duke. She arrives in California with hopes of beginning a new life but, penniless, once again becomes a prostitute at a brothel there.  In the present day, when Michael enters Angel's room and tells her he wants to marry her, she is thrown off-guard but remains aloof toward him. It is not until after she is nearly beaten to death by a brothel guard, that she agrees to marry Michael and leaves with him. He nurses her back to health at his home, despite her continued aloofness toward him. Michael continues to surprise her as he claims to love her as his wife, and refuses to have sex with her. Afraid to trust him, she runs away at her first opportunity, but Michael finds her and convinces her to come home.   As the two begin their life on the farm, Angel develops feelings for Michael but runs away again when she realizes that he wants children, as she believes herself to be sterile. She gets a ride with Michael's brother-in-law, Paul, who resents her because of her past and demands that she pay him for the ride by having sex with him. Back in Pair A Dice, Angel reluctantly returns to the brothel to get the gold she is owed, from Duchess. She finds that the brothel had been burned down by Macgowan with the Duchess, Lucky and Mei Ling inside. With no money and no place to live, she reluctantly goes back to prostitution with one of the town's bar owners. When Michael arrives to rescue her from her employers, she is relieved to return home with him. He forgives her, and their relationship begins to blossom based on honesty and affection.   As Angel falls in love with Michael, she becomes convinced that he will be happier married to someone else who can have children, leading her to leave him once more. Having learned to cook while with Michael, she is able to get a job at a cafe in the city rather than returning to prostitution. However, by chance, she encounters Duke, who has relocated to California. He compels her to return to prostitution by threatening the life of her employer. He places her on a stage in his new establishment for his patrons to view. There, in a moment of desperation, she regains the faith she lost after her mother's death and tells the audience about Duke's sexual trafficking of young girls. Duke denies the allegations and attempts to murder Angel, but an African American man, implied to be an old friend of Michael's, subdues him and the captive girls escape into the audience, resulting in Duke being lynched by an outraged mob. Afterward, Angel starts a successful mission to help rehabilitate other young prostitutes.  Three years later, Paul finally comes to find her and tells her that Michael still loves her. Angel returns home to Michael, offering her love and telling him that her real name is Sarah. They reunite and are shown to eventually have children.