Sarah Lustig and Tyler Cortice are one week away from getting married. Despite Tyler's doctor father Kirby being extremely rich, Sarah's construction worker father Kenny insists on paying for everything, resulting in a very cheap wedding.  In the week leading up to the wedding, the two families are plagued with multiple problems. Kenny, in an attempt to impress Kirby, tries to get his hotel room made over to look more fancy. Unfortunately, the incompetence of the staff results in damage to the other rooms where other members of the family are staying, forcing the Lustigs to let them stay at their house, already crowded with their own family. To make matters worse, the hotel is where the reception is held, and the damage from the poor work threatens it. Despite this, Kenny firmly refuses any help from Kirby, insisting on doing everything by himself.  Due to a misunderstanding, Kenny's elderly uncle Seymour is mistaken for a World War II veteran (he never actually fought). To help save face after accusations from the press, Kenny convinces the mayor to hold the reception, in the guise of a party in Seymour's honor, at City Hall. However, when Seymour dies in an accident during Tyler's bachelor party, Kenny is forced to admit that the legs everyone thought Seymour lost in combat were actually lost to diabetes. This gets back to the mayor, who cancels the party. To cover this, Kenny, his wife Debbie and Seymour's son Charles capture a bunch of bats and dump them down the chimney of City Hall.  The day of the wedding arrives and despite everything, the ceremony goes off without a hitch. During the reception, Kirby confronts Kenny over his behavior and helps him realize that he did it all out of a need to do one more thing for his daughter. Unfortunately, they have this talk while being held up during a dance for a long time, and one of the carriers collapses, spilling water which hits the electronics, starting a fire.  Feeling awful, Kenny admits why he did the things he did to Sarah, who forgives him. The rest of the reception is held at the Lustig house and Kenny and Kirby agree that the latter should pay for the first big family vacation.