During their youth, Cade and his identical twin brother Cale were abducted by aliens and modified to become humanoids, secret agents hired to stop evil. After some time, Cale did not fit in with the program and was fired. Cade, as an adult, is introduced on a mission where he is protecting troops. He returns to headquarters and meets with his boss, who suggests that he take a vacation. Cade laments not having seen his brother in awhile.  Cale interrogates a lawyer, an executive, and the president of the bank, before he shoots one of them in the leg, and leaves to do pills with his girlfriend Donna. Cade's boss tells him about programmable virtual reality and how a man named Cuzzx is going to use it to conduct the biggest cyber and terror attack ever. Cade decides to investigate, but while investigating, he bumps into Alana. He offers to go on a date with her to apologize, but rejects his offer and leaves. Later, he sees her and decides to follow her home. Cade breaks into her house and they fight, before they abruptly stop fighting, revealing that they'd been in a relationship the whole time.   Cade breaks into a Cuzzx lab to find clues for his mission. Cade finds four men wearing VR goggles who are in some kind of trance, and in the next room, a very old person dressed like Cuzzx meeting with people. The men disappear, due to the programmable virtual reality and Cade reports back to his boss. Cade takes Alana, his girlfriend, out to dinner, and a mysterious man stabs Cade's homeless friend, taking his cell phone. Meanwhile, Cale tracks down and murders a rich executive, but accidentally drops a syringe at the crime scene. Cade pretends to be a rich investor who wants to give money to the Cuzzx Empire, which gets him a tour of Cuzzx's house. Donna, Cale's pillhead girlfriend, breaks up with him and then runs into Cade, demanding to know where she can get more drugs and why he shaved his beard. Cade responds by saying "I never had a beard" repeatedly. He gives Donna some money to find a place to stay and they hug. Alana sees and gets jealous. The aforementioned mysterious man enters the home of a prostitue before the film cuts to Cade outside Cuzzx empire building.  Cade then decides to take down the Cuzzx empire and goes into the boiler room to enact his plan. After his empire is destroyed, Cuzzx flees the country. Cade goes home and Alana pulls a gun on him, as she was working for Cuzzx the whole time. They shoot each other, and Alana dies in his arms. In the virtual reality forest, Cade and Alana reunite, they embrace and Alana tells him she loves him, and then disappears. The film ends with Cade addressing the audience, accepting the loss of Alana, and stating that humanity will eventually live in a virtual universe. Before the credits, the message "Cade Altair will return" appears onscreen.