At Freddy Fazbear's Pizza, an abandoned pizzeria and family entertainment center that was once successful, a night security guard attempts to flee from the place but is captured and strapped to a torture device, which kills him.  Sometime later, mall security guard Mike Schmidt is fired for assaulting a negligent father whom he mistook for a kidnapper. Mike's career counsellor, Steve Raglan, offers him a job as a night guard at Freddy's. Though initially reluctant, Mike accepts after social services threaten to take custody of his younger sister Abby and pass her to their estranged aunt Jane, who desires the custody's monthly payments.  During his first night on the job, Mike falls asleep and dreams about the kidnapping of his little brother, Garrett. He meets five children who also witnessed the crime, but flee when he approaches them. The following day, Jane hires a gang of vandals, which includes Abby's babysitter Max and is led by Max's brother Jeff, to vandalize the restaurant in order to get Mike fired and hasten Jane's custody of Abby. At Mike's shift that night, he meets police officer Vanessa Shelly, who explains that Freddy's closed during the 1980s after five children were murdered there. The suspect and the victims' bodies were never found. Once Mike's shift ends and he leaves, the vandals break in, but the restaurant's animatronic mascots—Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie, Chica, Foxy, and Mr. Cupcake—kill the entire group. Max's disappearance forces Mike to bring Abby along on his next shift, in which the animatronics befriend Abby and Mike discovers that the animatronics are possessed by the amnesiac ghosts of the missing children, whose leader consistently mentions a "yellow rabbit".   On the fourth night, Abby is accidentally injured when she, Mike, and Vanessa are bonding with the animatronics. The next morning, Mike gets Jane to babysit a frustrated Abby as he goes back to Freddy's and takes some sleeping pills. The children appear in his dream again and tell him that he can stay with Garrett forever in exchange for Abby; Mike initially accepts, but when he changes his mind, he is attacked. After being strapped to the device that killed the previous guard and narrowly escaping, Mike is cornered and injured by Foxy. Meanwhile, a damaged yellow Freddy animatronic, possessed by the leader of the children, presumably kills Jane and takes Abby back to the pizzeria.  Vanessa treats Mike's injuries and reveals that she is the daughter of William Afton, the serial killer who kidnapped and murdered the five children and Garrett. He hid their bodies in the animatronics, knowing the police would never search them, and their souls are under his control. Realizing that the animatronics plan to kill Abby and have her join them, Mike rushes to the restaurant. The animatronics are defeated, but are reactivated by Steve, who arrives wearing the "yellow rabbit" suit, and reveals himself to be William.  Knowing the animatronics like drawings, Abby draws a picture of William murdering the children in order to free them from his influence and make them realize the truth. Vanessa attempts to stop her father but he stabs her. When the animatronics see Abby's drawing, they turn on William. Mr. Cupcake bites off part of William's suit, triggering its internal springlock mechanisms, which fatally wound him. As the animatronics drag William away, Mike and Abby carry Vanessa out of the restaurant, who later falls into a coma and is hospitalized. Shortly after, Mike and Abby reconcile and resume their normal lives.