Annie Cameron is gifted a laptop from her parents, Will and Lynn, for her fourteenth birthday. She meets a boy online named Charlie, who initially claims to be 16 years old, but later confesses that he is actually 20, and eventually 25. Though disconcerted by his dishonesty at first, Annie comes to believe that the two of them are in love. After two months of communicating electronically, Charlie invites Annie to meet him at the mall. Upon arriving, she discovers that he is actually in his late thirties. Though she is distraught, Charlie convinces her to accompany him to a motel, where he makes her wear lingerie he bought her and rapes her, filming the ordeal.  The next day, Charlie fails to return any of Annie's calls or texts, upsetting and confusing her. Annie's best friend Brittany confronts her, having seen her with Charlie at the mall. When Annie confesses that she and Charlie had sex, but dismisses Brittany's concerns, Brittany notifies the school administration. Police arrive and depart with Annie, drawing attention from other students.  After Annie's parents learn what happened, an investigation begins, led by FBI agent Doug Tate. The FBI have Annie call Charlie in an attempt to identify him, but he figures out the ruse and blocks her number before they can trace his location. Will hires a private investigation firm from New Jersey to catch Charlie, but this proves fruitless when they realize Charlie masks his IP address so that his location appears as the Czech Republic. As he becomes obsessed with catching Charlie, Will's relationship with his family becomes strained, and he starts having nightmares of Annie being raped, and questioning his work at an advertising firm, which often uses provocative images of teenagers. Annie begins seeing hospital counselor Gail Friedman, with whom she confides that she loves Charlie and believes he loves her too. When Annie returns to school, Brittany tries to apologize, but Annie orders Brittany to never speak to her again.  DNA evidence proves that Charlie has previously sexually abused several other pre-teen girls. After seeing pictures of Charlie's other victims, Annie flees her home and seeks consolation from Friedman, breaking down in tears as she finally admits to herself that she was raped.  Hoping to regain a sense of normalcy and fall back into a routine, Annie participates in a school volleyball game. Will sees a father in the crowd taking pictures of the girls, whom he mistakes for one of the men from the registered sex offender list and violently confronts. Though the assaulted man declines to press charges, a humiliated Annie lashes out at Will at home, insisting that he is ruining her life.  Annie learns from Brittany that other students have been ridiculing her online, photoshopping her into pornographic images and exposing her cellphone number and address. She rushes home and attempts suicide by overdosing on pills. After a panicked phone call from Lynn, Will finds Annie in the bathtub and forces her to vomit. Brittany spends the night to keep Annie company, mending their friendship.  Annie wakes up and finds her father sitting outside in the freezing cold. Will admits that he blames himself for failing to protect her and pleads for her forgiveness, though he believes he does not deserve it. Annie tearfully embraces him.  During a post-credits scene, it is revealed that "Charlie" is actually a high school physics teacher named Graham Weston, with a wife and young son.