Kevin “Stretch” Brzyzowski (Wilson) is a failed actor turned limo driver in Los Angeles who is addicted to cocaine, alcohol, and gambling. One day, he is thrown from his car in an accident. Miraculously uninjured, he confronts the other driver, Candace (Decker), only to fall instantly in love. After a year of dating, Stretch is inspired to give up his addictions and propose, but Candace abruptly breaks up with him to be with a wealthy athlete. This propels Stretch down a self-destructive spiral. Though he remains free of his addictions, he retains a $6000 gambling debt to the Mexican mafia. He also hallucinates the bitter ghost of another failed actor and limo driver named Karl, who committed suicide in front of two customers.  Stretch’s boss, Naseem (Toub), tells him that their chief competitor, a mysterious man known only as The Jovi (Couture), has been stealing their clients. Unless they can steal clients from The Jovi, Naseem will be forced to fold his business. The mafia also demands that Stretch resolve his debt by midnight. Stretch begs Charlie (Alba), a sympathetic coworker, to direct any high-paying customers his way, as a generous tip is his only hope for paying in time. Although unsure how he will solve his problems, Stretch takes time to set up a blind date with a woman online.  When The Jovi steals Stretch’s first client, actor David Hasselhoff, Charlie sends Stretch to intercept one of The Jovi's clients, Ray Liotta. Liotta tasks Stretch with returning a prop pistol and badge to the studio where he works. But before he can do so, Charlie sends him another client: Roger Karos (Pine), an eccentric and hedonistic millionaire who suggests he will pay Stretch's debt if he serves without question.  Not only does Karos request to be dropped off at a secretive sex club, but he gives Stretch 100 minutes to return to the club with an important briefcase and a supply of cocaine. Stretch’s quest takes him to a nightclub where he meets Laurent (Dale), a French criminal, to whom Karos has promised some mysterious ledgers in exchange for the contents of the briefcase. Since Stretch knows nothing of the ledgers, he must come up with an alternative plan. Using Liotta's prop gun and badge, Stretch cons Laurent and his men into believing that he is a police officer, and they surrender the briefcase. As he leaves, he encounters Candace and insinuates that he has become successful and important. When she expresses interest in him, he turns her down, getting a sense of closure.  Naseem fires Stretch after complaints about the missing props, and the limo’s operating systems remotely shut down. At that moment, the Jovi’s brother, Boris (Willig), who operates a tow truck, arrives to take the limo. However, Stretch fast talks the security system operator into believing that he is a cop whose life is on the line during a gunfight, and the limo is restored to working condition, allowing him to escape. Next, he procures Karos’ desired cocaine from a reality television star, who then steals the limo. Stretch reacquires it, only for Boris to catch up to him again. Stretch then has to detach the limo from the tow truck as they travel across the highway.  Karos complains that Stretch is one minute late when he returns. When the Mexican mafia also complains that Stretch is late with his payment, Stretch instructs them to meet him at Karos' final destination. There, Karos abandons Stretch to The Jovi, Boris, and the Mexican mafia, revealing that he was never going to tip him the $6000. Laurent, revealed to be an FBI agent, arrives to arrest Karos for embezzlement. As Karos prepares to kill Laurent in a sneak attack, Stretch creates a diversion, saves Laurent's life, and escapes.  The next morning, at a diner, Stretch gives the ledgers to Laurent, who declines to arrest him and compliments his acting skills. As Stretch looks around, he realizes that he has ended up at the meeting point he arranged with his blind date. He is surprised to find that the woman is there, and when she is revealed to be Charlie, the two laugh and kiss.