On a small planet whose inhabitants are made of natural materials, the first Guardians brought a small Sun and Moon to bring light to their world. For generations, the Guardians of the Sun and Moon used them to preserve the harmony of the world, with colossal animal-like temples being used to carry them in a timely fashion around the planet. Although they are very different from each other, the people of the day and night live in relative harmony with each other. However, in the Underworld deep within the planet, Necross, a failed and corrupted Guardian of the Sun who once tried to steal the Sun for himself out of envy, awaits the opportunity to plunge the world into darkness.  In the present day, the day is approaching when the Sun's Apprentice Guardian, Sohone, and the Moon's Apprentice Guardian, Leeyoon, will take on the roles of Guardians of the Sun and Moon from an elderly Xolal and Yule, respectively. On the day of their induction, the light of the Sun accepts Sohone as planned, but the lunar Ewe chooses Mune, a young, inexperienced Faun boy, over Leeyoon.  When Mox, an impulsive Imp and a servant of Necross, informs him about Xolal's retirement, Necross sees this as an opportunity to steal the Sun again. After the ceremony, Xolal and Yule show their respective successors how to operate their Temples before passing, with Xolal turning into a stone statue and Yule turning into a tall glowing treelike plant. The following night, Necross sends Pale Snakes to visit an upset Leeyoon to stir up his jealousy and advise him to pit Sohone against Mune. Meanwhile, Mune struggles to maneuver the Temple of the Moon as it leaves its path and interferes with Sohone. While Sohone leaves his Temple after Leeyoon convinces him to scold Mune, Necross sends Mox and his shy, nature-loving Imp partner Spleen to steal the Sun and bring it to him in the Underworld. Necross causes the Sun to die off gradually to ensure that no one will take it from him. As a result, night falls across the land and a distressed Mune is banished from his people.  Mune and Sohone set out on a quest to find the vanished Sun, with the young wax girl Glim accompanying them. Thanks to her knowledge of astronomy and the ancient stories of how the world came together, the group passes across the Great Blue Hole, a lake under which the great abyss that leads to the depths of the world opens. While underwater, the group meets Phospho, a failed previous Guardian of the Moon from the same generation as Necross, who, due to his cowardice, gave up his position after failing to stop Necross instead of Xolal. He awakens Glim using his power and leads them to the entrance of the Underworld, where Necross lives, before leaving.  Meanwhile, Leeyoon takes Mune's place in the Temple of the Moon, but is unable to control it. The Moon wanes and crumbles into dust, causing the Temple to go out of control. It ends up in the Underworld, where Mune, Sohone and Glim are. Mune and Glim take care of the Moon while Sohone dives into the Underworld to recover the Sun. Mune figures out that he can calm the Temple of the Moon by using his powers, inspiring Phospho, who had watched from afar. Leeyoon admits to him that the Moon is lost, but Mune and Glim go into the Moon Quarry of the World of Dreams, which Yule had informed Mune of before passing away, to carve a new crescent like the first Guardian of the Moon had done before. However, despite the new Moon being ready, it could not shine without the Sun. Mune, who had tested his powers against Nightmares, and Glim develop feelings for each other as a guilt-ridden Leeyoon apologizes to Mune for his actions, recognizing him as the true Guardian of the Moon.  With the task done, Mune and Glim rejoin Sohone in the World of Darkness only to find him surrounded by a mass of Pale Snakes, who attempt to make him go mad with hatred like with Necross. Sohone is saved after Phospho intervenes and sacrifices himself to calm and free Sohone, destroying the Snakes in the process. Sohone, Mune and Glim confront Necross and his Imps. Glim finds the Sun and blows on it to revive its fire, causing her to melt in the process. As she is melting, Glim encourages Mune, telling him he can defeat Necross as he mourns her sacrifice. As Necross is about to crush Mune and Sohone, the Sun and the Moon unite and empower them. Mune uses his Dream powers to defeat Necross by putting him to sleep. In the World of Dreams, Mune realizes that the Pale Snakes were influencing Necross and destroys it. Necross regains the appearance he had before he was corrupted as he turns into stone in the real world, while the Underworld changes into a paradise and Mox and Spleen are flowered.  Necross's decorruption brings back peace to the land, and the two Guardians are able to resume the normal trajectories of the Sun, the Moon, and their Temples. With some help from the Sun and Moon’s power, Mune re-sculpts Glim reviving her in such a way that keeps her from melting in the day and freezing in the night. Mune and Glim meet up and kiss before going around the world on the Temple of the Moon.