Sofia McKendrick (Natalie Dormer) is a blind pianist living at an apartment in London, and is haunted by the murder of her family by Serbian paramilitaries. Her neighbour Veronique (Emily Ratajkowski), is the daughter of Serbian philanthropist Zoran Radic (Jan Bijvoet), who has committed war crimes during the Bosnian War, and currently suspected of running criminal organizations. Despite the controversy surrounding Veronique's family, Sofia seemingly had amicable relationship with her, although lately noticed something wrong with her. During a discussion in an elevator, Veronique slips Sofia a USB drive and tells her that the perfume is “Liquid Gold”. Later, Sofia overhears a struggle occurring in Veronique's room and witnesses Veronique fall to her death. Despite this, Sofia denies witnessing anything to the police Detective Mills (Neil Maskell), discreetly holding the USB drive.  Later at an event hosted by Radic, Sofia performs and overhears Radic and his associates discussing the circumstances of Veronique's death, revealing that he was the one behind it. Radic's head of security Alexandra Gordon (Joely Richardson) and her brother Marc (Ed Skrein) have a discreet conversation and it is revealed that Veronique was pregnant and that Marc was sent to kill her; Marc was also having an affair with her and is likely the father of her child. Radic forms a fixation on Sofia for her connection to Veronique, and Sofia ends up having to dodge police questions and Radic's men looking over Veronique's apartment.  Marc rescues Sofia from being accosted and attempted kidnapping. Sofia spends some time with Marc, learning of his and Veronique's affair, and that Veronique committed suicide out of paranoia. This in turn leads to an affair between Marc and Sofia. It’s soon revealed Sofia has her own vendetta towards Radic, conspiring with her adopted father Niall (James Cosmo), and gives him the USB drive, with “Liquid Gold” being the password, uncovering Radic's assets and criminal operations. Sofia recounts how while she was blind, her sister, Balma, who could see but pretend led to be blind for Sofia’s benefit. It's revealed that Sofia's family were once friends with Radic in Bosnia, but Radic betrayed them, personally leading the paramilitaries in their massacre. Niall was a soldier who rescued and protected Sofia for years while she plotted revenge. It’s also discovered that Veronique was planning to expose the truth of her father's crimes, but knew that her days were numbered; this was the reason she gave Sofia the USB drive.  Sofia learns that Alexandra is also looking for the drive, hoping to use the information to usurp Radic’s operations. Sofia hands Alexandra a copy of the drive in exchange for a private audience with Radic at Veronique's funeral. There, Sofia confronts Radic, who realizes the truth of Sofia's past and motives. Radic taunts Sofia, claiming he was in love with her mother, and that he raped her shortly before she gave birth to a blind daughter, and is under the impression that Sofia is his biological daughter. Radic leaves the funeral as Sofia is left emotionally devastated. As Detective Mills looks into Sofia's past, it's also discovered that "Sofia" is an alias; the real Sofia was Niall's biological daughter who died in infancy, and Niall named Balma "Sofia" after taking her in. Niall soon passes away while in the hospital.  Radic discovers Alexandra's treachery, and orders her death; despite the appeal from his sister, Marc abandons Alexandra due to her indirect involvement with his unborn child's death. Radic arrives Sofia's apartment intending to personally kill her, while Marc rushes to her rescue. Meanwhile, Detective Mills is watching surveillance of Sofia's visit earlier in the front office and he notices Sofia looking at something, soon realizing she analyzed Marc's wanted poster and makes his way to her apartment. As a fight ensues, Marc takes out Radic's men, while Sofia initially holds her own before disadvantage. Radic overpowers and prepares to kill Sofia, as Sofia attempts to stab him with a broken mirror chard. Marc arrives and shoves Radic out the window; Radic falls onto a spiked fence and is killed.  As Sofia looks over Marc, there is a final revelation; Sofia was never blind, and is in fact Balma. During the massacre of their family, the real Sofia was killed while they were hiding. Balma was rescued, and took Sofia’s identity, feigning blindness for years. Because she could see, she saw a Wanted Poster and realizes that Marc is a wanted fugitive. The film ends as Marc encourages her to run, while he takes the fall for Radic's death, and Sofia flees the apartment.