Michael Newman is an architect who is consistently bullied by his overbearing boss, John Ammer, and often chooses work over his wife Donna and his two children, Ben and Samantha. One night, Michael visits the retail store Bed Bath & Beyond to buy a universal remote control. After an unsuccessful search, he stumbles around various departments before falling asleep. Upon waking, he accepts a free remote control from a man named Morty, who warns Michael that the remote cannot be returned.  Michael learns that the remote can be used to control reality much like a television. He uses it to his advantage at work, to cause light-hearted mischief, and to fast-forward several inconveniences, such as illnesses and arguments. Morty tells Michael that during these times his body is on "auto-pilot", going through the motions of everyday life while his mind skips ahead.  Anticipating Ammer will promote him within a couple of months, Michael uses the remote to skip ahead to his promotion, only to learn that he missed out a year of his life. He learns that he is in marriage counseling with Donna and that he missed the death of their dog. The remote, having learned his preferences, begins to time-skip automatically. With Morty refusing to take the remote back, every time Michael tries to discard or destroy it, the remote keeps on reappearing.  Ammer tells Michael he is retiring and suggests that one day Michael may end up CEO. Momentarily forgetting his plan to outfox the remote, Michael says he would like that to happen, and the remote fast-forwards ten years ahead. In 2017, Michael is now the wealthy CEO of the company and is also morbidly obese. Donna has divorced him and is now dating Ben's childhood swim coach, Bill. When Michael attacks Bill out of anger, the new family dog pounces on him, knocking him unconscious. The remote then fast-forwards six years ahead to skip the injury and other subsequent diseases, such as cancer and a heart attack. In 2022, Donna recounts that Michael had a liposuction during that time and that she is married to Bill now.  Michael finds out his father, Ted, has died of old age a year ago. Unable to go to when his father died, he then uses the remote to see the last time they met, learning that he coldly refused to spend time with his father. At Ted's grave, Morty reveals to Michael he is the Angel of Death. Overcome with guilt and shame, Michael asks to go to a "good place", whereupon the remote fast-forwards to Ben's wedding in 2029. There, Michael suffers a second heart attack after overhearing Samantha calling Bill her father. Later, he wakes up in the hospital to find his family there, including Samantha, who clarifies that she views both Bill and Michael as her fathers. Ben reveals he postponed his honeymoon due to work. Realizing Ben is making the same mistakes he made, Michael gathers the last of his strength to follow him out of the hospital. He collapses and dies, but not before telling Ben to put his family first, and assures his family that he still loves them.  Michael reawakens in Bed Bath & Beyond and believes he was dreaming, seeing it as a sign to make changes in his life. He embraces his family and promises to spend more time with them. At home, he finds the remote on the counter along with a note from Morty, telling him to do "the right thing this time". Michael throws the remote in the trash, and much to his surprise, it does not reappear.