Seventeen-year-old Greg Gaines, who is self-described as having the face of a "little groundhog", is a senior at Pittsburgh's Schenley High School who avoids close engagement with other students. He learns that fellow student and former childhood friend of his, Rachel Kushner, has been diagnosed with leukemia and is forced by his parents to befriend her in her time of need. Despite an awkward first encounter on Rachel's staircase, with neither of them truly wanting the other's company, Greg manages to strike up a conversation about her pillow collection. She comes to find his quirky personality and honesty endearing.  Greg introduces Rachel to his "co-worker" Earl (who tells Rachel that Greg avoids calling people his friend out of fear they will not reciprocate), with whom he makes short films parodying famous film titles. Despite Greg's reluctance, Earl shares their collection with her, which she finds entertaining. As Rachel begins her chemotherapy treatment and subsequently loses all of her hair, Greg begins spending less time on schoolwork and more time with and caring for her by entertaining her to lift her spirits. Though Rachel suffers through her treatment and seems to get worse and worse, Greg, who often breaks the fourth wall, assures viewers that she does not die in the end.  Madison, a pretty girl at school, convinces Greg and Earl to make a film dedicated to Rachel, and Rachel persuades Greg to apply to a local college. Greg continues to ignore schoolwork, and eventually school altogether, in order to finish the film. After realizing that her chemotherapy is doing more harm than good, Rachel opts to discontinue her treatment. Greg and Rachel have a heated argument over her choice where Greg accuses Rachel of giving up on herself and in return Rachel points out his unwillingness to do anything selfless unless he is told to do so. He leaves, devastated that he can no longer help her.  In a rage, Greg confronts Earl, blaming him for the events leading to the end of his friendship with Rachel. Earl in turn admonishes Greg's inability to care and sympathize for anyone but himself, before ultimately punching Greg after the latter dares him to. Later, Earl gives Greg a heartfelt testimonial for Rachel's film before letting him know that he is finished with their friendship. Greg's admission to the college he planned to attend is later rescinded due to his poor grades.  Later in the year, Greg learns that Rachel is back in the hospital and is dying. His mother encourages him to visit her. Madison invites Greg to the prom, but at the last moment, he decides to go to the hospital instead. During the journey there, Greg is asked by the limousine driver if he loves the girl he is going to see, a question he finds himself unable to answer. He brings his iPhone and a portable projector and places a corsage around Rachel's wrist before running the film he made for her on the front wall of her room. Rachel is moved to tears by the film, but falls into a coma shortly after viewing it and dies approximately 10 hours later. Greg admits to the viewer that he lied about Rachel not dying, as he "didn't think she would."  At her shiva, Greg is comforted by Rachel's mother and they grieve together. Greg and Earl rekindle their friendship. During the funeral, Greg sneaks into Rachel's room, where he finds a card from her stating that she wrote to Greg's college and explained that he missed school for her sake. It also states her wish for Greg to take any of her possessions that he pleases. He finds several intricate carvings within her books depicting scenes of her with Greg and Earl. Greg leaves with one of the books containing a personal carving and his favorite of Rachel's pillows.  Some time later, Greg writes his story of his time with Rachel and mails it to the college along with the film he made for her, with a warning that "the last person who saw this immediately went into a coma and DIED."