Because he is small, Stetson, a tan and brown terrier, has been abandoned in favor of a larger hunting dog. Stetson finds himself alone on the streets of the winter ski town, Park City, Utah, in search of food, shelter and a new home. Because he is small, Stetson can hide under the steps of Alex's Bistro, from between the steps, Stetson watches the sun set behind the Wasatch Mountains, the activities about the town and the dinner crowd leaving the bistro into the evening snowfall.  The next morning, Stetson is awoken by the sounds of skiers preparing to enjoy a fresh blanket of snow. Because he is small, Stetson has to avoid people and ski boots, walking the freshly shoveled paths through the snow. As Stetson trots down Main Street and past Dolly's Bookstore, the smell of freshly cooked bacon leads him to the Morning Ray Cafe. Stetson patiently waits outside, hoping that somebody will share their breakfast with him. Finally, a man in fire-red ski boots shares his croissant and pats Stetson on the head.  Behind the cafe, Stetson finds his friend Sam, a Golden Retriever, and then wanders over to his favorite snow cave; because he is small, the snow cave is just the right size. Stetson continues on to Love Your Pet Bakery, which is owned by three giant Newfoundland dogs, Ferguson, Apollo and Atlas. The lady at the counter gives Stetson a treat and he wanders upstairs, to an area where they sell custom dog collars. He sidles up to a customer, hoping that she needs a tan and brown terrier. Stetson tries on an orange collar, but none of the nice people give him collar or a home.  Stetson then rides the Park City Trolley, seated near his friend the Mayor (Mayor Dana Williams). Stetson and the Mayor like to ride the trolley because the people are nice, Stetson also likes to ride high in his seat to see the colorful and historic mining era buildings of Park City and so that he doesn't have to look at feet.  Stetson takes the Park City Trolley to Dolly's Bookstore, which looks warm and inviting, Stetson picks his moment to sneak inside. Two cats, Mr. Dolly and Che own Dolly's Bookstore and they don't appreciate his visit on this evening. Stetson tries to disguise himself, hiding in a pile of stuffed animals, but Mr. Dolly really does not want Stetson in his store today. Stetson finds another place to hide in a cowboy hat shaped cat bed.  Because he is small, Stetson can just fit into the bed and he falls asleep. At children's story time, the bookstore gets busy and very noisy, Stetson heads into the evening looking for food and warmth. As the night grows colder, icicles form on the buildings and on Stetson's beard. Wandering up Main Street looking for food, Stetson meets a nice lady (Kristina Skarstedt) and a little girl, Stetson also meets a not so nice person (Vicky Bushnell), who chases him away.  Stetson is soon drawn to music coming from the open doors of St. Mary's Church. Stetson scoots into the church, and because he is small, he can crawl forward under the pews, settling beneath a man with a red scarf and a Stetson cowboy hat.  At the end of the Service, Stetson follows the man with the hat into the blustery evening.  A gust of wind whips the hat from the man's hand and it comes to rest beneath a parked snowplow. A snow-covered Stetson retrieves the hat and returns it to the man.  The man picks up the hat and then he picks up Stetson, because he is small, the man is able to warm Stetson with the red scarf and carries him to his new home.  The man's name is John (Dr. John Artz), he is Ski Patrol in Park City. And now, Stetson will learn to be a ski Patrol dog.  Because he is small, Stetson can ride in John's backpack as they travel the mountains helping to keep skiers and snowboarders safe.