In a small town in upstate New York, sixteen-year-old Stephanie Daley collapses in a pool of blood while on a school skiing trip. A doctor discovers there is afterbirth in the blood. Soon afterward, the body of a 26 weeks-old baby girl is found in a bathroom stall, its mouth blocked with toilet paper. Despite Stephanie's insistence that her child was stillborn and that she had no idea that she was pregnant, she is arrested for the murder of the child and becomes derisively known in the local news as the "ski mom".  Awaiting trial, Stephanie is interviewed by forensic psychologist, Lydie Crane, who is approximately 30 weeks-pregnant with a son. Lydie is hired by the prosecution to determine whether Stephanie truly did not know she was pregnant. When Lydie first meets the Daley family, Stephanie's mother is quick to stipulate that Stephanie will not accept a plea bargain.   As Lydie gets Stephanie to open up about the events leading up to her going into labor, flashbacks show Stephanie's background. Stephanie, a shy, inexperienced teenager who is in her school's marching band, is raised by her religious parents and attends a school that teaches abstinence-only sex education. One night, Stephanie goes to a party with her friend Rhana, but averse to socializing with others, she retreats to a room alone. Corey, a recent graduate of her high school, joins her and seduces her into having sex. After their encounter, he enlists in the Marines and she never meets him again.   When Lydie asks Stephanie if she knew this was how she got pregnant, Stephanie avoids the question and claims she was being "punished" by God because she was "weak", and that the pregnancy was a "test". Lydie becomes visibly annoyed at this and reveals to Stephanie that she previously gave birth to a stillborn baby herself and asks Stephanie what she thinks Lydie was being punished for.   Presently, Lydie's marriage to architect husband Paul has grown increasingly strained since the death of their stillborn infant, which she gave birth to only three months prior to conceiving the child she is now pregnant with. As Stephanie discusses her sexual history and her relationship with her parents, Lydie is forced to face her hitherto buried emotions about her own lost child. Suspecting Paul is having an affair, Lydie confronts him about it. Paul claims though he has thought about it, he has not slept with anyone else. He also blames the problems in their marriage on Lydie having not properly grieved for their stillborn baby and suggests she does not truly want the baby she is carrying, which Lydie angrily rebukes.  Stephanie recounts the day of the ski trip to Lydie. In the preceding days, none of her friends are aware of a pregnancy, only observing she is gaining weight, and Stephanie, possibly in a state of denial, does not tell anyone she is pregnant. On the ski slopes, Stephanie begins to go into early labor. She makes it to a bathroom where she quietly but painfully delivers the child on her own. Stephanie says she wrapped the infant in toilet paper and left it there, but still maintains the baby was stillborn.  Some time before her trial is to start, Stephanie is getting a glass of water in her kitchen when a car drives by, with men shouting and heckling her about a baby. This causes Stephanie to break the glass in her hand and unconsciously cut her palm with it, severely upsetting her mother. Stephanie returns to Lydie and says she is going to accept a plea bargain. Lydie states that she thinks this is a good idea and, reaching out to shake Stephanie's hand, she notices the cut and asks what happened. Stephanie recalls to her a memory suppressed from trauma: her baby girl was alive when she delivered her, but was so small, and "her breathing was all wrong", so in her mind she told her child to die, and she did. Stephanie, wracked with guilt, believes she killed her baby with her mind. An emotional Lydie hugs the distraught Stephanie.