Nick Hume, a businessman living in Columbia, South Carolina, watches his son Brendan's hockey game. On the way home, they stop for gas in a bad part of town. During an apparent robbery of the gas station, Joe Darley, a new gang member, slices Brendan's throat with a machete. Nick ambushes the thugs, pulls off Joe's mask and sees his face. Joe escapes, only to get hit by a car. Nick rushes Brendan to the hospital, where he dies. Lucas, Nick's younger and less charismatic son, suffers survivor guilt.  Nick identifies Joe in a police line-up but learns that Joe will only get a light sentence as there is not enough evidence for a trial. At a pre-trial hearing, Nick recants his identification and Joe goes free. Nick trails the gang to their hideout, catches Joe alone, and stabs him to death. The gang leader, Billy, wants revenge. Nick is quickly identified as the killer.   The gang ambushes Nick on the streets, leading to a tense chase inside a car park. Nick manages to evade the gang and escapes in his car, in the process causing the death of another gang member. The suitcase Nick dropped during the chase is delivered to his office, and he finds a phone number inside. When Nick calls the number, Billy answers, reveals himself as Joe's brother, and warns that Nick has brought a "death sentence" upon his family.   Nick calls Jessica Wallis, the detective assigned to Brendan's case. Aware of what Nick has started, she grants Nick's family police protection and issues APBs on Billy and his gang. That night, the gang members kill the officers protecting Nick's house. They subdue Nick, then shoot Helen and Lucas. Helen dies while Nick and Lucas are hospitalized.  After a brief talk with Jessica, Nick visits Lucas, who is in a coma. Nick apologizes for not being a better father, then escapes the hospital window. Nick buys guns from Bones, a black market gun dealer who later reveals himself as Billy's father. Nick interrogates Heco, a gang member, and learns that their lair is an abandoned mental hospital that they call "The Office." Forcing Heco to call Billy's number, Nick executes him while Billy is listening. Bones confronts Billy, who kills his father.   Nick heads to "The Office." After a shootout, he and Billy encounter and seriously wound each other in the chapel. Sitting on the same pew, Billy comments that he turned Nick into a vicious cold-blooded killer just like him. Nick pulls out his revolver and asks Billy if he's ready, as Billy sheds a tear before Nick ends his life. Nick returns home, watches his family's home movies, and awaits his inevitable arrest. Upon her arrival, Jessica informs Nick that Lucas has improved and will now live.  Alternative ending In the extended version of the film, Nick succumbs to his injuries.