Jonathan Marsh is a lonely twenty-something, working night shifts at a local liquor store with his friend and shift manager, Eric, “The ERC.” One night at his apartment Jonathan is summoned through his TV by a seductive woman, beckoning him to come “meet sexy singles in his neighborhood” and call the 1-900 number on his screen. Soon, Jonathan finds himself on a blind date at Jenny's Diner with Dena. She coerces him to take her to his apartment, where they engage in a one-night stand. The next morning, Jonathan awakens alone in his apartment, no sign of Dena, but he does discover an uncomfortable and unsightly rash on his abdomen.  Looking for answers, he returns to Dena's but is greeted by a suspicious man who denies she lives there. Jonathan's paranoia increases when he is stricken with nightmarish visions. His physical symptoms worsen as well, eventually spreading to his arm. Unable to sleep, Jonathan returns to Jenny's Diner, where he receives a phone call from his friend, Eric, who tells him he's in trouble and to come over to his place immediately.  Jonathan arrives at Eric's to find his front door ajar and Eric not home. Jonathan goes inside to search for him. In Eric's room he's attacked by an unknown assailant. The police arrive and arrest Jonathan. Jonathan finds himself in the care of psychiatrist, Dr. Jason Ronaldi, who provides family counseling and commits him to a 3-day hospital stay. Ultimately, Jonathan is released into the care of his parents. His first night at home, while sleeping, he awakens to find a mysterious black, bubbling ooze on his bedroom wall. His paranoia escalates and he absconds from his parents' house. The next morning he awakens in an abandoned field.  He makes his way to an occult book store where he receives instructions to meet with Miss Melinda at Blue High Shack. That night at Blue High Shack, Miss Melinda tells him he's been the victim of a witch cult and coaches him through a ritual, involving a ceremonial dagger, meant to rid his body of the “evil” (black string) that has been implanted in him by Dena and the cult. It's a painful ordeal and Jonathan is unsuccessful in his attempt to remove the string. He returns to Miss Melinda at the occult book store demanding an explanation. She tells him to return to Dena and the witch cult for answers.  Jonathan returns to Dena's house. Ensuring no one is home, he sneaks into the house and finds Dena captive upstairs, agonizing and mangled. While Jonathan is upstairs with Dena, the witch cult occupants return home. Jonathan confronts them on his way out. Still, the suspicious man from earlier continues to deny any knowledge of “Dena," but Jonathan is convinced that what he saw upstairs was real and leaves to seek help. Jonathan returns to the liquor store to seek the help of his friend, Eric, who calls the police. The police quickly arrive and arrest Jonathan.  Once again, Jonathan finds himself in the care of psychiatrist, Dr. Ronaldi, but this time at the County Psychiatric Hospital lock down unit. Dr. Ronaldi encourages him to "confront his demons" and to commit to the therapy. That night, Jonathan is attacked by the demon of his nightmares. The next morning, Dr. Ronaldi and staff find him eviscerated and dead in his bed, the ceremonial dagger in his right hand, raising the question—did he do it to himself or was he sacrificed by the witch cult who cursed him? Dr. Ronaldi phones Jonathan's parents.  The denouement finds a young woman waiting at a bus stop when the witch cult pull up to offer her a ride. She gets in and they drive off toward an uncertain fate.