Based in Portland, alcoholic wheelchair-bound cartoonist John Callahan is honored for his work. Introducing himself as an alcoholic, we see the events that lead him here.  On the morning of the day of his accident, John woke up still drunk and went to purchase more alcohol so withdrawal would not set in. He talks about being put into an orphanage at birth.   Flashing forward, we see John's animosity towards his apathetic carer Tim. Back again to the evening of the accident, going to a party in Long Beach, he meets Dexter. They get in a car together, and as the night progresses, they get more and more drunk, intermittently vomiting. They sneak into an amusement park and go to a strip club.  Dexter insists on driving, although a bystander points out they both are too impaired. His drunk driving results in a car accident, as they hit an electrical pole, which leaves the sleeping John quadriplegic.   John comes across several apathetic medical personnel in the hospital, including groups of medical students who periodically pass through and talk about him and others like they are not sentient beings. Finally, he connects with Swedish physical therapist Annu, who treats him there.   John and Annu chat whilst she works on him. He talks about his desperation to not be paralyzed for life, alternatively praying to God and making pacts with the devil. They also discover they have things in common.  At the hospital, John is soon equipped with an electric wheelchair which gives him back some independence. He and a fellow patient go out one night. On the return to the rehabilitation center, they narrowly miss getting hit by a train, thanks to John.   As John gradually adapts to his new normal, he quits drinking with help from his Alcoholics Anonymous sponsor Donnie. At the meetings, he learns to be transparent and not to play the victim.  John, as he was given up for adoption when he was small, tries to track down his mother. When they find a file on him, he is told that Oregon law forbids him from reading it. Although John reads the name Maggie Lynch, he cannot confirm nor deny it which leaves him distraught.  His electric wheelchair breaks down, so John calls the Disability Resource Center for help, but they do not as they have had cutbacks. He has a low period in which his carer is not empathetic and he is desperate to drink away his depression. Having an epiphany through a vision from his birth mother, John quits drinking.   John is inspired. Not only does he get an AA sponsor, but he also becomes a cartoonist. He builds a new life, drawing off-color newspaper cartoons. Later, John runs into Annu, who now is a flight attendant. She becomes his girlfriend, and they fall in love.   At AA, John works through his abandonment issues and self-destructive behavior. As he reaches the 12th step, Donnie dies of AIDS. Later he accepts the award.