While on the road to moving house, recent widow Jessica is brake-checked by a man in a truck. When she attempts to pass him, he initially refuses to let her, then tailgates her until taking a different exit. She later encounters him at a gas station where he apologises for his behaviour. Moments later, she finds his truck blocking the road; he tells her he has broken down and asks for a ride but Jessica declines and drives off.   Later that night, she sees him again at a rest stop and flees. She crashes her car and sees her tires have been slashed. The man appears, breaks into her car and drugs her; Jessica wakes up in his cabin where he has locked her inside. She pleads for her release but he alludes to her not being the first one he has kidnapped and then forces her to tell him what happened to her husband. Jessica reveals he committed suicide.   The next morning, she hears the man leaving and notices that the key is still in the keyhole on the other side. She slides her sweater underneath the door and uses a stray nail to push the key out. She frees herself and hides in an upstairs closet when the man comes back. She overhears him speaking to his wife on the phone, lying about where he is and that he'll be back soon. Once he goes downstairs, she escapes into the woods. The man soon notices and gives chase. After she badly injures her foot, they face off at the river where Jessica jumps in to escape.  Wet, cold and in pain, Jessica stumbles through the forest until she hears a nearby rustling in the bushes. She hides behind a tree and hits out at someone with a branch, thinking it is the man, but instead meets a man named Robert who is out hunting. He offers to give her a ride and provides food, water and new boots. As they are driving, they come to a stop where a tree has fallen, blocking the road. When they get out to move it, the man arrives, making up a story that Jessica is his sister and she's having a psychotic episode due to her husband's recent death. After Robert demands the man's phone to call the police, the man attacks him and then kills him with his hunting rifle.  Jessica runs from the scene and another chase ensues. She hides in a cave at night to get out of the rain, but the man spots her and shoots her in the shoulder. She then hides in a small pond. The man tries to goad her into coming out by mocking her husband's suicide but gives up and leaves when she doesn't come out. The next morning while the man is disposing of Robert's body, Jessica climbs into his car. She steals his phone then hides in the trunk as the man returns. While driving, Jessica leaps into the back seat and attacks him, striking him multiple times in the head. He wrestles her away and in doing so, crashes the car, flipping it over.  Dazed, Jessica climbs out and spots a search and rescue helicopter. She runs after it into a clearing where she uses his phone to call his wife and tell her the truth. The man, whose name has been revealed as Sam, follows Jessica into the clearing; she puts the phone on speaker and taunts him with it. Enraged that Jessica has exposed his true nature to his family, Sam lunges at her with a knife and a fight ensues. Jessica ultimately overcomes him and fatally stabs Sam. She watches him die and then lies beside him exhausted as the helicopter descends from above.