Seventeen-year-old Evan Hansen suffers from social anxiety and depression. His therapist recommends that he write letters to himself detailing why "today will be a good day." Evan's mother, Heidi, suggests that he ask people to sign his cast, after Evan had fallen out of a tree and broken his arm, to try and make friends. At school, Evan writes his letter to himself, wondering whether anyone would notice if he disappeared ("Waving Through a Window").  Evan's classmate, Connor Murphy, offers to sign his cast, taking up a lot of space. He finds Evan's letter and becomes furious at the mention of his sister, Zoe, who he learns Evan is attracted to. Believing that Evan wrote the letter to provoke him, Connor storms out with the letter in hand. Three days later, Evan is called to the principal's office and is told by Connor's parents, Cynthia and Larry, that Connor died by suicide. Despite Evan's attempts to tell the truth, the two misinterpret the letter Connor stole as a suicide note addressed to Evan, with Connor's name on his cast solidifying their belief.  Evan is invited to the Murphys' house for dinner. Under pressure from Cynthia, he invents a friendship between himself and Connor, manufacturing a story about breaking his arm while with Connor at an orchard the Murphys visited ("For Forever"). Evan enlists his family friend, Jared, in fabricating backdated emails between him and Connor to confirm his story ("Sincerely, Me"). Zoe wonders why Connor included her name in his suicide note due to past experiences ("Requiem"). Evan, still unable to tell the truth, tells Zoe all the reasons he loves her, pretending the reasons were from Connor's perspective ("If I Could Tell Her").  Alana Beck, a classmate with social issues similar to Evan's, proposes "The Connor Project," a student group dedicated to keeping Connor's memory alive, with an upcoming assembly as the kickoff ("The Anonymous Ones"). At the assembly, Evan gives a speech about his loneliness and friendship with Connor, retelling the orchard story. A video of the speech goes viral, with Evan's words being used as hope to people dealing with mental illness ("You Will Be Found"). Zoe is overcome by the positive reception and thanks Evan for helping her family.  Evan and Alana launch a crowdfunding campaign through The Connor Project to reopen the orchard. Evan begins to neglect his mother, The Connor Project, and his therapy in favor of spending time with the Murphys. When Zoe comes over to Evan's house one night, she confesses her feelings for him and the two begin a romantic relationship ("Only Us"). Meanwhile, Heidi shows up at the Murphys' for dinner, during which Cynthia and Larry offer to give Connor's college fund to Evan. Heidi declines, refusing charity from the wealthy Murphys.  When Alana begins to doubt Evan's friendship with Connor, Evan emails her his therapy letter, saying it was Connor's suicide note. Alana posts the letter on her social media in order to get The Connor Project to its funding goal ("The Anonymous Ones (Reprise)"). Online commenters question why Connor wrote a suicide note to Evan but not his family, accusing the Murphy family of mistreating him. Due to backlash, Alana deletes the letter from social media, but she is too late, as the letter had already been shared across the internet. During an argument between Cynthia and Larry, Evan comes clean. Devastated, Connor's family keep the truth hidden out of fear Evan will harm himself also still seeing him as a second son, and Zoe and Evan break up ("Words Fail"). Evan admits to his mother that his fall from the tree was a suicide attempt. Heidi apologizes for not seeing how deeply Evan was hurting and discussing how his absent father scarred him ("So Big/So Small"). Wanting to take responsibility, Evan uploads a video confessing the truth.  Alone again, he reads a list of Connor's favorite books and gets in touch with those who truly knew him. He receives a video of Connor performing music while in rehab, passing it along to the Murphys, Alana, and Jared ("A Little Closer"). Evan meets with Zoe at the reopened orchard dedicated to Connor's memory. They reconcile, with Zoe telling Evan she wanted him to see the orchard, the one place Connor loved. Evan writes himself a letter, vowing not to hide or lie and encouraging himself to move forward in life ("A Little Closer (Reprise)").