At 17, Veronica "Ronnie" Miller has been rebellious since her parents divorced and her father moved to North Carolina three years ago. She had been caught shoplifting in NYC, where she lives. Once a child prodigy pianist under her father, Steve Miller, Ronnie hasn't played piano nor spoken with him since. Juilliard School has been interested in her since she was young, but she refuses to attend.  Kim Miller sends the teen and her younger brother, Jonah, to spend the summer with Steve and reconnect. He is a former Juilliard School professor and concert pianist, who now lives quietly in Wrightsville Beach, his home town. He's making a replacement stained-glass window for the local church lost in a recent fire.  Upon arrival, Ronnie is hostile towards everyone, including handsome, popular Will Blakelee. He crashes into her during a volleyball match, dumping her shake on her. Shrugging him off, Ronnie meets Blaze, an outcast who lives with her boyfriend Marcus. That night, by a beach campfire, he hits on Ronnie and Blaze mistakenly thinks it's the other way around. In revenge, Ronnie later gets her arrested for shoplifting.  Later, Ronnie discovers a loggerhead sea turtle nest by her dad's. Protecting it from raccoons, she meets Will again as he is an aquarium volunteer. After spending the whole night defending the eggs together, she discovers he is deeper guy than expected, and they connect on a deeper level.  The next day, Will takes Ronnie to the aquarium. She is told that it is part of his m.o. with girls. When Will returns to the turtle's nest, an irate Ronnie says she won't be just another girl and they should end it. They kiss passionately, becoming a couple.   Will takes Ronnie home believing his parents are away. She discovers he lives in a large, gated mansion and ends up meeting his parents as they returned early. After an awkward dinner, alone outside Will reveals his brother passed away recently. Will and Ronnie profess their mutual love, and she shows him she is a talented pianist.   At Will’s volleyball game, Ronnie hears locals blame her father for the church fire, but ignores them. When she receives the invitation to Will’s sister’s wedding, she shows her father in the church ruin and they discuss what caused the fire. When a distraught Ronnie laments about what he said to Will, he asks Scott to divulge the truth about what happened, but he refuses.   On the way to get a dress, Ronnie sees Marcus abandoning Blaze. She gives Blaze all the money Steve had given her for her dress, and in return Jonah helps her pay for and pick out her dress. At the wedding, as Ronnie and Will are enjoying themselves, Blaze thanks her: she has left Marcus and moved home. He suddenly arrives, causing a scene and provoking Will when he insults Ronnie.   Will and Ronnie arrive back at Steve’s and Jonah bursts out as the turtle eggs are hatching. While watching the eggs hatch, Steve collapses and is brought to the hospital. His terminal cancer has spread to his lungs, which is why Ronnie and Jonah are there for the summer.   Ronnie stays with Steve in the hospital while Jonah and Will continue with the stained-glass window. Steve’s cancer progresses and he eventually requests hospice at home. As Will and Jonah finished the window, they take Steve to see it installed. Feeling even more pressure from knowing the truth about the church fire, Will asks Scott again to confess, and he finally agrees.   Scott and Will come over and finally explain: Scott, Will, and other friends were behind the church horsing around with Marcus and his friends. Will had left, while Scott stayed. The church accidentally ignited as they were playing with fire. Scott allowed Steve to take the blame, although Will wanted to report the crime to the police. He did not out of loyalty to Scott. Steve insists on not reporting it and is OK with taking the blame. Ronnie overhears and breaks up with Will.   Kim arrives once they know of Steve’s condition. Jonah and Steve have a tearful moment before Jonah goes home to NYC while Ronnie stays to take care of him. She tries to make up for lost time with her father. She continues working on his composition (titled "For Ronnie"), as his hands ache. He is sitting, listening to her play, and dies just as she finishes.  At his funeral, Ronnie declares that no words could ever show how wonderful her father really was. Instead, she shares with them their song. As she sits to play, sunlight shines through the stained-glass window. She smiles as she feels he's there.  After the funeral, outside the church, Will tells Ronnie that both he and her dad liked the song and disappears into the crowd. Having decided to attend Juilliard, she is packing up to return to NYC when she sees Will outside. He apologizes for everything, surprising Ronnie by revealing that he will be transferring to Columbia University to be with her and they passionately kiss.