In the 1940s, Deputy Waterhouse and Sheriff Proctor drive to a nearby quarry with two bodies stowed in their truck. Waterhouse takes a necklace off one of the bodies and they dump the two corpses into the water. Waterhouse then holds Proctor at gunpoint and demands he get rid of his badge, telling Proctor that he's no longer fit to be sheriff. Proctor throws his badge over the cliff.  In the 1970s, Jacqueline Mathers, called Jake, and her brother Sean head to the quarry. Sean insists she gets over her fear of jumping into the water below and offers to jump with her. Sean jumps but Jake becomes scared and lets go of Sean's hand at the last second. Jake watches as her brother plunges into the water below but doesn't resurface. In a panic, she runs for help, tripping along the way and gashing her forehead, which leaves a large scar. Deputy Freeman informs Waterhouse, now the sheriff, that his grandson has drowned in the quarry.   Jake suffers from survivor's remorse and falls into depression. A boy at school named Willie Proctor, the grandson of the old sheriff, has a crush on her and draws her pictures, much to the disapproval of his grandfather. Some months later, Jake's parents tell her they're going to have a baby which upsets Jake. The next day, Jake runs into three gypsy brothers led by Wyeth. Wyeth tells her he has the power to bring her brother back but someone will have to die in his place. The brothers take her back to their cabin on Proctor's property and make a blood oath with Jake - they'll bring her brother back if she pushes Willie Proctor over the quarry edge. She agrees. When she returns home after dark, her parents question her about where she's been. She tells them three men took her to their cabin. Waterhouse takes Jake to the cabin and asks Jake to identify the three brothers but, remembering her oath, Jake says she's never seen them before.  Jake convinces Willie to follow her to the quarry. She's about to push him over but is filled with guilt and decides not to. Jake's mother attempts to make Jake feel better by taking her to dinner where Jake is confronted by Wyeth. Jake says she won't kill someone. Wyeth tells Jake that her grandfather has something of his and he wants it back. Jake finds her mother crying, having seen a boy who reminded her of Sean. Jake goes to her grandfather's house and steals the necklace he's been hiding.  The next day, Wyeth and his brothers confront Jake's mother at her home. She becomes frightened and blood begins to pour from between her legs. Later, Waterhouse is told by the doctor that his daughter will live but the baby can't be saved. Filled with remorse, Jake brings the necklace to Wyeth who tells her she can only bring Sean back if she sacrifices Willie. He puts the necklace around her neck. Waterhouse arrests the three gypsy brothers and takes them to jail. A desperate Jake convinces Willie to follow her to the quarry one more time. Meanwhile, haunted by memories, a drunken Proctor begins to douse the gypsy's cabin with alcohol. Waterhouse goes to the jail to find Deputy Freeman with his throat cut and the brothers escaped. An enraged Waterhouse drives to the cabin only to be shot by Proctor. Waterhouse shoots back and they both lie dying as the brothers return home. Wyeth tells Waterhouse that he's about to have his revenge.  In a series of flashbacks we see the events that led to the opening scene. A younger Sheriff Proctor witnesses the gypsy family, living on his property, engaging in strange rituals. He threatens the mother with arrest unless she pays him. When she says they have no money, he sexually assaults her. Deputy Waterhouse sees Wyeth and his frightened brothers, then only children, outside. Waterhouse finds Proctor raping the boys' mother. Proctor returns to the cabin with food only to be confronted by the husband who beats him and runs him off. Proctor returns with Waterhouse and kills the father. As Waterhouse protests, the mother shoots at the two policemen. Waterhouse shoots back and fatally wounds her. Proctor shoots the father in the head and aims at Wyeth before Waterhouse stops him. Wyeth kneels over his mother, who whispers something to him before dying. Waterhouse and Proctor then take the two bodies to the quarry.  Back in the 1970s, Wyeth tells Waterhouse that he knows Jake is about to push Willie into the quarry, setting herself up for a lifetime of pain and regret. Waterhouse says he knows she won't do it. Waterhouse asks if he knows the old saying about revenge - "Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.” Waterhouse then throws his lit cigar onto the alcohol-soaked floor which sets the cabin aflame, killing the brothers, Proctor, and himself in the process. As they die, Waterhouse and Wyeth embrace each other as they once did when Proctor raped the mother, apparently forgiving each other in the process.  Jake struggles to push Willie. When she realizes that Wyeth only said "someone" had to die, Jake jumps herself and lands in the water. She sees the figure of her brother below her. Sean swims up to her and pulls the necklace from around her neck before disappearing into the depths. Jake hears Willie calling to her from above as she swims back to the surface.