Eli Wurman (Al Pacino) is an aging, burnt-out Jewish publicist whose best days are well behind him and wishes to retire from his line of work, but all he knows is how to hustle, cajole, threaten, and persuade. The hazy mania of his everyday life is fuelled by a steady stream of prescription drugs and alcohol. One night, Eli's last remaining "big client" Cary Launer (Ryan O'Neal) – an actor considering a campaign for political office – entreats Eli to take care of his latest publicity mess, a dangerous liaison with Jilli Hopper (Téa Leoni), a hard-shelled, quick-tongued television actress with a soft centre and a taste for illegal drugs.  The actress takes Eli to a drug-and-sex den, a playground for the rich and famous, where she claims to be looking for a toy. Jilli is escorted off the premises by security. As she demands to know where her toy is, she finds it and tells the guards, "I got all of you now." Eli is too stoned to understand the exchange.  Eli takes her back to the hotel room, where he takes more pills and passes out right after witnessing what appears to be the actress's rape and murder. In his opiate daze, he cannot be sure. By the next morning, the memory is buried. Eli needs to pull together a charity benefit. He is tempted to leave New York for good with Victoria (Kim Basinger), Eli's former sister-in-law and widow of his deceased brother. Victoria's feelings for Eli are mutual and she genuinely cares about and desires him. She offers him life away from his current lifestyle. However, Eli is hesitant, for she is his brother's widow.  But, his work is interrupted by the police who question him and by acquaintances trying to ascertain how much Eli has seen and recalls. Eli finally realizes he is involved in something politically dangerous, and powerful forces are at play to keep his mouth shut. As he strives to bring together the people he knows – members of the Black and Jewish communities, film stars, and media – for the grand fundraiser, Eli's life is in grave danger. Eli struggles with remembering exactly what happened that night. Through a series of flashbacks combined with visits from the people he knows, the viewer learns that Eli's life is in danger when Eli fails to realize the danger. However, it is revealed that the people Eli trusts are the people who are threatened by the photos. Eli pulls off a successful event surrounded by these individuals. Unfortunately, his success is comprehended after he is killed by the people who made it a success.