During the war in Afghanistan, SSG Romesha and a new group of soldiers arrive at PRT Kamdesh, under the command of CPT Keating. SGT Scusa saves a dog from being shot, and the men fend off yet another Taliban attack. SSG Gallegos assaults PFC Yunger for firing too close to his head, while SGT Larson reprimands SPC Carter for arguing during the firefight. Keating arranges a shura to offer local elders money for infrastructure projects in exchange for peace. A gunshot residue test proves that a local man took part in the previous day's attack, but he and others lay down their arms. Keating offers to drive a large LMTV through the narrow mountain roads; while Romesha and Carter scout ahead, the vehicle falls off a cliff, killing Keating.  The new commanding officer, CPT Yllescas, sends out a patrol after another attack; Romesha details how he would mount an assault on the vulnerable outpost. SGT Kirk apprehends a local man paid by the elders to take pictures of the base, which leads Yllescas to withhold the money Keating promised them. The base's Afghan interpreter, Mohammed, warns of an impending large-scale attack, but his fears are dismissed. Patrolling a bridge with Yunger, Yllescas is killed by a bomb; the traumatized Yunger is talked out of suicide by Romesha and extracted out of the Outpost with Yllescas' body.  CPT Broward takes charge of the base, which he reveals will soon be closed. An Afghan ID is found near the bridge, presumably belonging to the bomber, but Broward refuses to allow Romesha and the men to search the nearby villages. Romesha clashes with Broward over the captain's strict adherence to the rules of engagement, and pressure from Afghan President Karzai postpones the closing of the base. Carter approaches 1LT Bundermann with the men's concern about Broward's leadership, but is rebuffed.  A nighttime attack reveals the insurgents now have night vision equipment and mortars. The next day, elders arrive with the body of a girl they fraudulently claim was killed by the American counterattack; Broward agrees to compensate them, and shoots Scusa's dog for biting an elder. As the troops blow off steam by waterboarding each other, Broward reveals he has been relieved of command and the base will officially close in October. Left in command, Bundermann orders the men not to send any communication about leaving the base, as the soldiers make calls to their loved ones.  On the morning of October 3, 2009, Mohammed alerts the base that the villagers are gone and hundreds of Taliban fighters have surrounded the outpost. A firefight erupts, sending the Afghan National Army forces fleeing, and PFC Thomson and Scusa are killed. Gallegos and several others are pinned down inside an armored vehicle, and Romesha is wounded trying to reach them. Learning Kirk has been killed, Romesha eliminates a Taliban sniper. SGT Hardt, SPC Griffin, and PVT Faulkner try to reach Gallegos' position, but their vehicle becomes stuck as they realize the Taliban have breached the perimeter. Griffin and Hardt are killed, and Romesha reaches the TOC and convinces Bundermann they should retake the base.  Larson and Carter lay down covering fire, allowing the others to escape from the armored vehicle. Gallegos and SSG Martin are killed, and despite taking heavy gunfire, Carter rescues wounded SPC Mace. Romesha leads a group of men to successfully secure the front gate, just as air support arrives. As a B-1 bomber drops its payload on the Taliban's position, Carter and Larson carry Mace to the aid station, where CPT Cordova uses fresh blood from himself and others to transfuse Mace. CPT Portis and a quick reaction force arrive, dispatching the last of the insurgents. The remaining soldiers leave by helicopter as the base is demolished, and learn Mace did not survive. The Battle of Khamdesh left 27 Americans wounded and 8 dead, and Romesha and Carter each received the Medal of Honor, members of what became the most decorated unit of the war.