Joe, Willie, and Albert are senior citizens and lifelong friends living in NYC. During an unpleasant appointment at the bank, Joe is one of the witnesses to a robbery in progress carried out by three individuals wearing black masks.   During the robbery, Joe notices the leader bearing a Mongol warrior tattoo on his neck, the only lead that could help the police identify the culprit. The man sympathizes with Joe when he finds out about his current financial situation brought on by the bank. The robbers escape with over $1.6 million.  When the company where the friend trio worked is bought out, their pensions become a casualty of the restructuring. Joe is hit particularly hard and finds out that he, his daughter Rachel and granddaughter Brooklyn, will be homeless in less than thirty days.   Willie finds out he is gravely ill from kidney failure and needs a transplant. He's even more frustrated because his financial situation forces him into a long-distance relationship with his daughter and granddaughter. Desperate, the three friends decide to rob the bank restructuring their pension funds and take back what is rightfully theirs.  Inspired by experiencing the robbery, Joe originates the idea; at first Albert and Willie are appalled, but eventually agree when they later learn that their bank intends to steal their pensions. Trying to shoplift some items from a grocery store, where Al's love interest Annie works, results in a comic disaster. So, the trio turn to Joe's former son-in-law Peter Murphy, and professional criminal and pet store owner Jesús to teach them the ropes. They plan on using the lodge's carnival as a cover.  Joe, Willie, and Albert disguise themselves as "The Rat Pack" (Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, and Sammy Davis, Jr.) and use guns with blanks so no one gets hurt. The robbery almost goes awry when Willie collapses briefly and Lucy, a child witness, partially pulls off his mask to help him breathe better. She sees the watch he wears with a picture of his granddaughter on it, so he engages in a friendly conversation and makes her feel less intimidated.  The trio manages to take over $2.3 million. However, they are soon arrested on suspicion by FBI Agent Hamer, as the grocery store manager recognizes Al's walk from the video surveillance cameras, but they all stick to their alibis.  Hamer puts them, along with other senior suspects, into a police lineup, for Lucy to identify the robbers. She refuses to identify Willie, leaving Hamer with no case. Willie suffers total kidney failure and is near death until Al agrees to donate a kidney.   While part of the money is used to help the three friends with their financial situations, the rest is given to their families, friends, co-workers, and fellow members at the lodge. Joe finally gets his granddaughter a puppy he promised her if she got A's in every subject at school; courtesy of Jesús, who is later revealed to be the leader of those from the robbery Joe witnessed and helps launder the money that they stole.   The tattoo on Jesus' neck is also revealed to be a fake made of henna, intended to throw the FBI and the police off the scent. The movie ends at Al and Annie's wedding, as the three friends celebrate their good fortune.