College freshman Jack returns to his home in the New York suburbs, in the wake of news of his life-long dog Stella's imminent death. En route, he recognizes a girl on the subway he met at a party, whom he had been infatuated with.   Jack reunites happily with his younger brother Oliver and mother Sally. He meets her boyfriend Ron, who disapproves of the boys’ raunchy and cavalier rhetoric towards their mother despite their devotion to her.   Oliver later introduces his girlfriend Violet, a ballet dancer, who turns out to be the girl from the train. When privately confronted by Jack, she maintains angrily that she had good reason to ignore his calls. She and the boys leave for a party held by a fellow dancer, Cassandra.   Upon confrontation, she is revealed to have untruthfully told Violet that she slept with Jack. They leave and spend the night at the arcade, during which Jack wins a toy octopus for Violet, and they kiss her while Oliver is preoccupied. Feeling torn, he returns home and finds his mother, and they smoke cannabis in an attempt to medicate the dog. He admits that he kissed Violet and his mother tells him not to tell Oliver. Violet and Oliver both have sex for the first time.  Oliver later notices a picture from Violet sent to Jack of the octopus he won at the arcade, and Jack admits he's failing most of his college classes. The family gets ready for a party celebrating Stella's life where she is set to be euthanized. Ron reveals his desire to get closer to the boys' mother.   Sally talks to Violet and tells her to not come between the boys, leading her to break up with Oliver. He asks Jack to help win her back at her performance the next day. Instead, the three have a run-in with Cassandra, who reveals Violet's past with Jack and that a security guard at the arcade related to one of the dancers observed their kiss.   Later, at Stella's party, Oliver gives a speech about Stella that devolves into a tirade about Jack, during which he reveals Jack is failing. While they fight, Stella dies of natural causes. They bury her on the beach.   Returning home, they find Violet waiting on the porch. She and Jack agree they can't be together, while Oliver hides in the car. Violet talks to him and apologizes, assuring him she cares for him and that she does not view him as inferior to his brother.   Ron talks to Jack and they reflect on Sally not moving on since her husband's death and on Jack's interest in marine biology like his father. The boys are gifted puppies from one of the attendants of the party. They reconcile while watching an old family movie including Stella and their father at the beach.