Eighth grader Kayla Day is in her final week at Miles Grove Middle School, a public school in a small New York town. She posts motivational vlogs on YouTube about confidence and self-image that receive few to no views. Timid and struggling to make friends at school, she is voted "Most Quiet" by her classmates. Meanwhile, her single father Mark struggles to connect with her and break her reliance on social media.  Kayla is invited to popular classmate Kennedy's pool party by Kennedy's mother. At the party, she has a panic attack in the bathroom but eventually goes outside to swim, where she meets Kennedy's nerdy cousin Gabe. After trying to leave early, she has an awkward encounter with her crush Aiden, who suggests that she rejoin the party. She overcomes her anxiety and volunteers to sing karaoke.  After hearing that Aiden broke up with his last girlfriend because she refused to send him nude photos of herself, Kayla lies to Aiden that she has a folder of explicit photos of herself on her phone, piquing his interest. He asks if she gives blowjobs; unsure of what to say, she says yes, but later looks up oral sex instructions online and is disgusted by what she finds.  Kayla meets a friendly senior named Olivia during a high school shadow program. Olivia shows Kayla around the school before sharing her number and inviting her to the mall with some friends. They have a good time, but Kayla spots her father spying from afar and orders him to leave, mortified. While Olivia's friend Riley is giving Kayla a ride home, he initiates an awkward game of truth or dare in which he asks about her sexual experience and takes off his shirt before encouraging her to remove hers. When she refuses, he angrily claims he was just trying to help her gain some sexual experience. Kayla breaks down at home and is comforted by Mark.  Kayla makes a video announcing that she intends to stop making videos, as she is not the person she pretends to be and feels unfit to give advice. She opens a time capsule she created for herself in sixth grade and watches a video in which her past self asks about her current friends and love life. After enlisting Mark's help in burning the time capsule, she asks if she makes him sad. He tells Kayla she fills him with pride and he could never be sad about her, prompting her to embrace him.  At graduation, Kayla rebukes Kennedy for acting indifferent towards Kayla's attempts at friendship. She later has dinner at Gabe's house, and they enjoy their time together. Kayla makes a new time capsule that she and Mark bury in the backyard, and leaves a video message for her future high school senior self, encouraging her to persevere through tough times.