Married couple Caleb, a fire captain, and Catherine Holt, a hospital administrator, are experiencing marital difficulties. At work, Caleb underscores the importance of never leaving one's partner behind, but at home, he and Catherine argue constantly. Catherine accuses Caleb of being selfish because he prioritizes his desire for an unnecessary and expensive boat, and leaving her to consider paying for needed medical equipment for Catherine's ailing mother. She is also frustrated about his habitual use of internet pornography and his leaving her to handle all the home responsibilities and overheads herself. Caleb feels attacked. Their constant arguing escalates to the point where Caleb loses his temper and lashes out. Consequently, Catherine wants a divorce, to which an enraged Caleb agrees.  Caleb's best friend and fellow firefighter, Michael, and Caleb's father, John, convince him to hold off on divorce proceedings. His father persuades him to try the Love Dare, a 40-day challenge for marriage improvement wherein a spouse alters the way they treat their partner. Caleb reluctantly agrees, though he decides not to tell Catherine. At the hospital where she works, Catherine has been openly flirting with Dr. Gavin Keller.  Caleb begins The Love Dare halfheartedly, viewing the tasks as more of a checklist than mutual outreach. Meanwhile, nurses at Catherine's hospital warn her not to trust Caleb, as they believe he is trying to butter her up to secure a more favorable divorce settlement. With encouragement from his father and Michael, Caleb continues, though Catherine eschews his affections and grows closer to Dr. Keller. Finding Catherine unmoved, Caleb is consoled by his father, while Michael reveals that he was divorced before marrying his current wife. Caleb sustains burns on the job, is admitted to the hospital where his wife works, and is treated by Dr. Keller. During treatment, Dr. Keller discovers that Catherine is married to Caleb, but continues his affections. With renewed faith, Caleb continues The Love Dare, even destroying his home computer to remove his pornographic addictions and temptations. However, Catherine gives him an envelope with a petition for divorce, leaving Caleb heartbroken.  Catherine discovers that her mother's medical equipment costs have been paid anonymously and erroneously believes it was Dr. Keller, bringing them even closer. Caleb eventually discovers the burgeoning affair and discreetly confronts the doctor. After Caleb leaves, Dr. Keller pulls out a wedding band, revealing to the audience that he is also married, and terminates his pursuit of Catherine.  Catherine confronts Caleb after discovering his Love Dare journal, and he reveals to her that he has completed the challenge but is still following its guidelines. Despite Caleb's heartfelt apology, Catherine says she still needs time to reconsider the divorce. She later discovers that Caleb used his savings to pay for new medical equipment for her mother, with Dr. Keller only contributing $300. Moved by Caleb's selflessness, Catherine reconciles with him. Caleb discovers that his mother, whom he has treated poorly, did The Love Dare for his father, rather than vice versa as Caleb had originally thought. Realizing his bad behavior, he offers her an emotional apology and she forgives him. The film ends with Caleb and Catherine renewing their wedding vows.