In the year 1347 in Garfagnana, Italy, a convent of nuns is led by Father Tommasso. The three nuns at the center of the story are: Alessandra, who wants to marry her suitor but is held at the convent due to her father's support of the church; Ginevra, a gossip; and Fernanda, a violent sadist. The three of them routinely harass the friendly gardener Lurco, who quits in disgust. Meanwhile, in Lunigiana, a young servant named Massetto is caught having sex with his master's wife. While on the run, he discovers Father Tommasso, who has gone to sell some embroidery but has instead gotten drunk and lost his merchandise in the river. Massetto helps him return home and the two arrange to have Massetto work as a gardener while pretending to be a deaf-mute, in hopes that this will dissuade the nuns from giving him trouble.  Fernanda's friend Marta appears and encourages Alessandra and Ginevra to get drunk with the sacramental wine while explaining how being with a man is the greatest possible pleasure. Fernanda takes Ginevra back to her room, where they have sex. Massetto and Alessandra form a close bond, while Ginevra develops feelings for Fernanda.  Later, Fernanda kidnaps Massetto at knife-point and takes him into the forest, where she meets up with a coven of witches. She attempts to perform a fertility ritual with Massetto but is stopped by the arrival of Alessandra and Ginevra. Ginevra, under the hallucinogenic effects of belladonna, takes off her clothes and begins dancing and steals the convent's donkey. Massetto reveals that he is not a deaf-mute while trying to free himself. They return to the convent, and all of their secrets are revealed in the presence of the visiting Bishop Bartolomeo. Father Tommasso is sent away to become a monk after it is discovered that he and Marea, the Mother Superior are in love and have a secret relationship. Massetto is returned to his master and is held in a jail cell with the impending threat of torture and death until the three nuns (who have reconciled and formed an even stronger friendship) help him escape. While Alessandra, Massetto, Ginevra, and Fernanda run hand-in-hand back to the convent, Mother Marea and Father Tommasso have met up in secret under the pretense that Marea has gone to retrieve the donkey. They hide as the nuns and Massetto run by. Fernanda stops and stares in puzzlement at the once again freed donkey that she herself used as an excuse so many times to escape the convent, until Ginevra pulls her away. With the group gone, Father Tommasso and Mother Marea embrace and smile at each other.