Lou Marazano was once a feared hit man, but his reputation has dimmed significantly twenty years after his retirement. Unable to help his daughter financially after her ex-husband fails to pay child support, he asks the current local mob boss, Lorenzo Galante, for work. Though reluctant to give him the job, Galante sends him to kill several witnesses who will testify against D'Agostino, the previous mob boss. After Marazano sends flowers to the widow of one of the men he kills, Ralph Maloney, a veteran cop, reopens a case that involved a string of murders from the early 1990s. Though discouraged from investigating, Maloney and his partner, Elliot Walsh stake out the second target. Picked up at the scene of the crime, Marazano does not talk, and the police are forced to set him free when his girlfriend and her neighbors provide an alibi.  Worried that Marazano may talk in order to avoid jail time, Galante orders him killed. Marazano stays a step ahead of his former friends, and he is able to kill the crew sent to assassinate him. Knowing that he must also kill Galante, Marazano heads to Galante's bar, where Galante threatens Marazano's family. Unmoved by the threats, Marazano kills Galante and offers his gold watch to an elderly man. When the elderly man is taken in by the police as a potential witness, they spot the distinctive watch and realize that they have enough evidence to arrest Marazano. Meanwhile, Marazano collects the money from his job and receives his final target: the police captain. Meanwhile, Walsh takes over the investigation once Maloney became frustrated with the department's red tape.  When their captain says that he has important information to share, Walsh and Maloney, who has returned to active duty despite his cynicism, meet him in private at a parking lot.  Unknown to the others, Marazano tails the cops. Revealing that he is corrupt, the captain shoots both his subordinates. Before the captain can finish off either man, Marazano kills him. As Marazano turns to leave, Maloney And Walsh attempt to stop him.  In the ensuing gunfight, Maloney accidentally kills Walsh. Enraged, he chases after Marazano, whom he blames for Walsh's death. When Maloney confronts him, Marazano kills him. At his daughter's house, Marazano gives her all the money and urges her to leave the city, which he also plans to do.