In the 1930s, 16-year-old actress Judy Garland is told by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio head, Louis B. Mayer on the set of The Wizard of Oz, that she has a gift other girls do not. Her singing talent is nearly unmatched while she is able to surpass the success of Shirley Temple as a Hollywood child star. As her career takes off, Judy is forced by a ruthless studio minder to take amphetamines against her will; one such instance occurs during her date with Mickey Rooney. She is even denied permission to sleep due to the demanding schedule. Responding to Judy's criticisms, Mayer explains that she is exhausted by her working hours; even using emotional and physical intimidation to keep her in line.  In her forties, Judy has been performing with Lorna and Joey, her two children from her marriage to Sidney Luft, her third husband. Later, the trio try to check into their hotel but are turned away for previous nonpayment. Because of this, Judy is forced to return home to Sidney, who has since divorced her.  At a party, Judy meets nightclub owner Mickey Deans, and they become friends. In 1968, she is told by her agent of England being free to host her upcoming performances, but that the U.S. reception to her has cooled due to her performance unreliability and moodiness. She decides to embark for there, leaving Lorna and Joey with Sidney, which is difficult for her.  While in England, substance abuse keeps Judy from performing reliably. She is late to her London premiere and assistants are called upon to check on her health and fix her make-up. The fans are enthusiastic and her performance is excellent. During the show, she starts to sing the "Clang, clang, clang..." lyrics to "The Trolley Song" to loud applause.  Judy meets two adoring gay fans at the stage door on her way out and joins them for a late-night snack at their flat. They bond over their difficulties, and she sings "Get Happy" while one of the fans plays the piano. Deans comes to London on a surprise visit, which cheers her up. She still has trouble making her stage performances on time because of substance abuse and anxiety.  Her sponsoring British agent has Judy examined by a voice specialist doctor. She says she had a tracheotomy two years prior, which weakened her voice. The doctor diagnoses physical and mental exhaustion, which requires rest for recovery. Her relationship with Deans is a support to her personal life, and they marry, making him her fifth husband. She still thinks about Lorna and Joey and suffers from being separated from them. They, however, are happy in school in California. Deans has bad news about a money deal that fell through, which means she must stay in England to make ends meet. At her next performance, Judy passes out on stage and is heckled. Her singing engagement is terminated but she returns for a final night on stage, where she asks to perform one last song. She breaks down while singing "Over the Rainbow" but recovers with the encouragement of supportive fans and is able to complete the performance. She asks, "You won't forget me, will you?" to the audience, who applaud before she ends her performance by saying, "Promise you won't." The film's end card says Judy died six months later, in summer 1969, aged 47.