Miley Stewart and her best friend Lilly Truscott arrive at a concert and race through the crabdoor just in time for Miley to perform as her secret alter ego: pop superstar singer Hannah Montana. After filming a music video for her song "The Best of Both Worlds", Miley – as Hannah – is confronted by Oswald Granger, an unscrupulous tabloid reporter. Hannah's publicist Vita sends Oswald away, but he manages to record her alluding to Hannah's "secret", which he becomes determined to uncover.  While shopping as Hannah, Miley fights with Tyra Banks over a pair of shoes, making her late for Lilly's birthday party. Oswald records the incident and follows her to the party, forcing Miley to attend as Hannah in order to prevent him from learning her secret. Hannah's presence steals the entire party's attention, as does her performance of "Let's Get Crazy". Lilly leaves dejected and is stopped and questioned by Oswald, to whom she reveals that Hannah is from Crowley Corners, Tennessee.  Already upset with Miley for prioritizing her celebrity life over her family and friends, her father Robby is infuriated when her fight with Tyra makes headlines. He allows Vita to book a private jet for Miley to attend an awards show as Hannah, but instead flies her to Crowley Corners to spend two weeks there for her grandmother Ruby's birthday. Miley is eager to return to being Hannah, but Ruby chastises her for neglecting to spend time with her family.  Miley gradually reconnects with small-town life, her grandmother, and her childhood friend Travis Brody, while Robby is drawn to a local woman named Lorelai. Oswald arrives, and Miley is forced to misdirect him by claiming to know Hannah. The town holds a fundraiser to prevent developer Mr. Bradley from turning local land into a shopping mall, organizing a barn party where Miley performs "Hoedown Throwdown" as herself. When Mr. Bradley tells the crowd they will never raise enough money, Travis suggests Miley ask Hannah to hold a concert.  Lilly arrives disguised as Hannah to throw off Oswald and reconciles with Miley. Travis asks Miley out on a date, but she has already been invited by Lorelai to a dinner as Hannah with the town's mayor. Miley tries to run back and forth between both dinners, but Travis catches her mid-change and deduces her secret before angrily leaving. Miley then overhears Robby rejecting Lorelai in order to protect Miley's double life. Miley finishes writing "Butterfly Fly Away", which she and her father sing together. She stays up all night to complete the chicken coop she and Travis were building; touched by this, he attends Hannah's concert.  As the town prepares for the concert, Miley receives her late mother's necklace from Ruby. Miley stops performing mid-song when she sees Travis and Lorelai in the audience and announces that she can no longer live a lie before removing her blonde wig, revealing her true identity to the crowd. After she sings "The Climb", the crowd pleads with her to continue being Hannah and promises to keep her secret. Oswald takes a picture of Miley, but before he can publish it, his daughters arrive – flown to the concert by Vita – and their admiration for Hannah convinces him not to sell the story; instead, he rebukes his editor Lucinda and quits. Miley reconciles with and kisses Travis and returns to the stage to finish the concert with "You'll Always Find Your Way Back Home", as Lorelai and Robby reunite and kiss. During the credits, the cast dances to "Hoedown Throwdown".