In 1999, Johnny Truelove works as a young drug dealer while making a living in the San Gabriel Valley.  Johnny's father, Sonny, supplies him with marijuana, which he distributes with his gang of friends: Frankie Ballenbacher, Johnny's right-hand man and best friend; Tiko Martinez, the group's muscle; Elvis Schmidt, who is ridiculed for being in debt to Johnny and will do anything to get into Johnny's inner circle; and Jake Mazursky, a local Neo-Nazi drug addict also in debt with Johnny. Jake attempts to borrow money from his father and stepmother, while his younger half-brother Zack looks up to him and longs to escape his home life.  A fight breaks out when Jake tries to pay Johnny only part of his debt, leading Johnny to get him fired from his telemarketing job, and Jake to retaliate by breaking into Johnny's house with the help of a couple of his friends. Johnny brings Frankie and Tiko to confront Jake, but he is nowhere to be found. Spotting Zack on the side of a road, Johnny impulsively orders the gang to kidnap him, planning to hold Zack until Jake pays his debt. Wanting a break from home, Zack makes no effort to escape, and they drive to Palm Springs. Frankie is left to watch Zack, offering him a chance to leave, but Zack declines, not wanting to cause more problems for his brother.  Staying at the house of Frankie's father, Zack bonds with him and ingratiates himself with his friends Keith Stratten, Julie Beckley, Sabrina Pope, and Susan Hartunian, though only Susan is concerned about his abduction. Frankie suggests to Johnny that they pay Zack to keep quiet about the kidnapping and send him home, to which Johnny agrees. However, after a threatening phone call with Jake, and learning from his lawyer that he could face life in prison, Johnny offers to forget Elvis' debt if he kills Zack, giving him a submachine gun. Believing Zack will be returning home that night, Frankie and his friends throw a raucous party at a hotel. Zack goes skinny dipping with Julie and her friend Alma, leading to a threesome.  Everyone happily says goodbye to Zack, until Elvis arrives, arguing with Frankie over Johnny's plan to kill Zack. While Frankie runs off, Elvis politely introduces himself to Zack, then takes Keith to dig a grave in the nearby mountains. Frankie returns and gives Zack a final opportunity to escape, but Zack declines, oblivious to the danger he's in. Elvis and Keith return, and Frankie finally relents when Elvis explains they could all face life in prison. Sonny, Johnny's godfather and Sonny's older accomplice Cosmo Gadabeeti, and their lawyer confront Johnny, telling him they will try to make a deal with Zack's mother and get Johnny a light sentence, but Johnny refuses to call off the hit on Zack. Zack is driven out into the mountains and only begins to realize he is in danger when Keith tearfully embraces him and refuses to go any further up a remote hiking trail. Zack finally begins to panic and pleads for his life, but Elvis insists on following through to repay his debt. Frankie calms Zack enough to tie his hands and cover his mouth with duct tape before Elvis knocks Zack down into the grave and shoots him dead.  Left in the hastily covered shallow grave, Zack's body is found by hikers a few days later. Intercuts throughout the film include interviews conducted by Tom Finnegan, a detective, with people connected to Johnny's gang, and some of the 38 witnesses who saw Zack between his initial kidnapping and eventual murder. One of the people interviewed is Zack's mother Olivia, now suffering from obesity and depression, who talks candidly about attempting suicide in the weeks after her son's murder. She details how the brutal, pointless end to Zack's life destroyed her own: "They have their own rules in the drug world. They killed my son for $1,200."  Sometime later, Susan angrily confronts Frankie over the murder of Zack before she goes to alert the authorities. Elvis is caught trying to secure a lift out of town from another member of the gang, Pick Giaimo. Johnny flees to Albuquerque, New Mexico where an old classmate of his, Buzz Fecske, then drives him to Cosmo's house. Tiko is convicted of kidnapping and sentenced to nine years in prison; Keith is convicted of second degree murder and remains at the California Youth Authority until the age of 25; Frankie is convicted of aggravated kidnapping of special circumstances and receives a life sentence; Elvis is convicted of kidnapping and first degree murder, and is currently on Death Row in San Quentin State Prison.  Upon being asked about how Johnny was able to escape authorities for four years without any known source of help, Sonny and Cosmo deny having anything to do with it. In 2005, after over five years on the FBI's most wanted list, Johnny is arrested in Paraguay, now in California awaiting trial, facing the death penalty if found guilty.