Marvin Mange is an evidence clerk at the local Elkerton police precinct who dreams of becoming an officer like his late father. However, he repeatedly fails the physical examination. Marvin receives little respect from the populace and is especially tormented by sergeant Doug Sisk. He is smitten with environmentalist Rianna Holmes, but fumbles a first encounter with her.  While alone at the station, Marvin receives an emergency call; with no officers available, he responds himself. While en route he suffers a major car accident and is grievously injured. He is rescued by Dr. Wilder, a mad scientist, who saves his life by means of assorted animal organ transplants. Days later, Marvin, unaware of what happened, resumes normal life but discovers that he can now perform extraordinary physical feats and possesses keen animal-like instincts.   While visiting his friend Miles at an airport, Marvin sniffs out and apprehends a man attempting to smuggle drugs in his rectum. The event garners positive media attention and Marvin is promoted to full-fledged police officer assigned under Sisk.  Over the course of several days, Marvin awakens from bouts of sleepwalking, hearing subsequent reports of attacks in the night being attributed to a savage beast. Wilder introduces himself to Marvin, cautioning him of his rising animalistic urges as side-effects of the operation. Despite continued predicaments and embarrassments caused by his instinctual animal behaviors, Marvin's abilities allow him to excel as an officer and bond with Rianna. However, Marvin is questioned after a brutal attack on a cow; a police sketch implicates Marvin as the culprit. Marvin is subsequently placed on leave.   Afraid of what he has become, Marvin barricades himself inside his home. Rianna arrives to comfort Marvin and the two spend the night together. The following morning, the police raid Marvin's home when they suspect him of mauling a hunter. Marvin escapes and flees into the woods. An armed mob headed by Sisk is formed, while Marvin's friends Miles and Fatty seek to warn him. Marvin encounters Wilder who confides the existence of another patient who had undergone the same procedure; he suspects the other patient is the real culprit.  Sisk's lone pursuit of Marvin results in a near-fatal fall into a chasm, but he is saved by the latter. Despite this, Sisk holds Marvin at gunpoint, but he is suddenly killed by Rianna; revealed to be Wilder's other patient. Rianna confesses that she was responsible for the hunter attack, justifying her actions in protecting an orphaned turkey vulture she reared and released back into the wild. The mob arrives, threatening to kill Marvin. Miles makes a false confession to being the beast in an effort to protect Marvin and Rianna. Due to the racial implications in prosecuting Miles, a Black American, the mob casually pardon him.  One year later, Marvin and Rianna have married, starting a family and open an animal sanctuary. While watching television, they witness Dr. Wilder being awarded the Nobel Prize for his transplantation procedure.