Johnny is a single, middle-aged radio journalist who is currently working on a project that entails traveling the country with his producing partners to interview children and teenagers about their lives and thoughts about the future. While in Detroit, he calls his sister Viv, with whom he has not spoken since their mother's death from dementia a year earlier. They have a nice conversation, and Viv asks Johnny if he can come to Los Angeles and watch her nine-year-old son Jesse, as she has to travel to Oakland to help Paul, her estranged husband and Jesse's father who struggles with bipolar disorder, get settled there. Johnny agrees, and he and Jesse quickly forge a bond as they get to know each other and Johnny shows Jesse how to operate his audio equipment.  Viv discovers Paul is doing worse than she had thought and feels she should stay in Oakland until she can convince him to seek medical attention, so Johnny, who needs to return to work, convinces Viv to let him take Jesse with him to his home in New York City. He finds caring for Jesse while trying to work increasingly difficult, and one night, after Jesse disappears at a store, Johnny snaps at his nephew. While trying to apologize, he lets slip that Viv is try to help Paul, rather than just for a visit, but, eventually, Viv and Johnny are able to smooth things over with Jesse. From time to time, Jesse asks Johnny questions about his relationship with Viv and his personal life, and it is revealed that Johnny and Viv fought over how to care for their mother as her health deteriorated, that Johnny told Viv to leave Paul the first time Paul had issues with his mental health, and that Johnny was once in a long-term relationship with a woman, Louisa, whom he still loves.  Paul checks himself into a treatment center, but asks Viv if she will stay nearby until he is better, so Johnny, feeling confident, agrees to keep watching Jesse. When his producing partners begin to pressure him about an opportunity to interview some children in New Orleans and he loses Jesse on the street, however, he realizes he is in over his head and buys Jesse a plane ticket back to L.A. On the way to the airport, Jesse says he needs to use the bathroom, but then locks himself inside, saying he does not want to go home yet.  Johnny takes Jesse with him to New Orleans. He apologizes for wanting to send Jesse away, and the pair get back on good terms as Johnny works and they explore the city. When Viv calls with the news that Paul is doing much better and the doctors are sending him home, so she is coming to get Jesse, Jesse becomes upset and runs off. At first, he will only say that he is "fine", but Johnny helps him vent his frustrations by yelling and kicking the air. Jesse asks Johnny if he will be like his father when he grows up, and Johnny says he does not think so, as Viv has taught him how to deal with his emotions in a healthier way.  Viv flies to New Orleans and takes Jesse home. Back in New York, while listening to the recordings from New Orleans, Johnny hears a message from Jesse, in which he says that Johnny is probably his best friend. Johnny later sends Jesse a voice recording recounting their time together and reiterates a promise to remind Jesse about anything he forgets as he grows up.