The plot is based on a true story and follows Nate Norman, an eighteen-year-old high school dropout, who lives with his younger brother and single mom in northern Idaho. One day while delivering pizza he encounters a wealthy customer who tells him about the money to be made through drug trafficking marijuana from Canada. Nate later reads about the potency of Canadian weed in High Times Magazine and decides to recruit his friend Topher to help him with his grand plan. On their initial run, they cross the border to search for a supplier which leads them to a man who sells them $1,800 worth of marijuana. However, they quickly discovered later that the marijuana they purchased was of lower quality than they intended to purchase.  Despite the low quality, the product proves successful and sells immediately, resulting in another run across the border. During their subsequent trip, they meet Nicole (Merritt Patterson) who sells them 300 pounds of her dad's premium quality marijuana, which would become their supply. After the success of this run and now that a high-quantity supplier has been secured, Nate secures a financier and establishes his credibility. He then recruits and trains additional friends, promising to pay them $3500 each a run. Following daily runs, they revel in their successes, indulging in lavish purchases and throwing major parties. At a party, Nate has an encounter with a rival drug trafficker, Brendan Butler, who worries he's losing business to Nate and his team. The two get into a gunfight and Brendan flees. Fearing for his business, Brendan hires two hitmen to rob and kill Nate and Topher. After a close call with the two hitmen, Nate understands the threat to his life and hires the hitmen out from under Brendan, unbeknownst to his team. The hitmen later murder Brendan and  dump his body in the woods. Topher begins working in secret with others he personally recruited on drug runs, attempting to hide this from Nate. One of these runs leads to a shady participant trying to steal some marijuana for himself by hiding it in the woods to be picked up by himself later. When he goes to retrieve there product sometime later, he is pulled over by police and convinced to be a mole. During the next run with the team, the police are already waiting to arrest everyone because of their inside source. As police arrest and interrogate the crew, everyone turns in Nate as being the ringleader of the operation. The night before he's due to be arrested, Nate’s financier alerts him of the news and encourages him to flee. Nate immediately flees to Canada but later returns after his mother is threatened with money laundering charges. At the end of the film, their whereabouts and status at the point of release are detailed.