Jim Henderson returns to his hometown in California with the intention of renovating and selling his late mother's house. While shopping at a supermarket, he bumps into his former high school girlfriend Amanda. The two greet each other, but Jim says he doesn't want to stop her from whatever she was up to.  He bumps into her again in the parking lot and they decide to go for coffee at Blue Jay. They talk about what has happened in their lives since they last saw each other. Amanda got married and became the stepmother to two children. Jim works on renovating old houses with his uncle and is thinking about renovating his late mother's house.  While walking Amanda to her car, they pass a liquor store they went to frequently in their younger days. Amanda bets that the store owner will recognize them, although Jim disagrees. To Amanda's satisfaction, he does remember them. He remarks about how the two "famous lovebirds" are still together after two decades and gives them free beer and jelly beans, while Amanda and Jim jokingly play along about how they are still a couple after all this time.  They further discuss their current lives in depth by a lake, leaving Jim crying and feeling discontented with his life when he hears of how impressive her life sounds. Going to his mother's house, they get  nostalgic over their shared memories. While going through old memorabilia, Amanda finds a letter addressed to her written years ago, and keeps it.  She then finds tape recordings of Jim and her roleplaying their middle-aged lives. They play the recordings and laugh about how uncool they were. Jim proposes they have some "fun" and recreate the tape, pretending to be a married couple celebrating their 20th anniversary. At the end of the night, Amanda confesses to Jim she is on anti-depressants and that she has not cried in years. They eventually begin kissing passionately in the bedroom. She suddenly stops when he says he loves her. It is then revealed that Amanda had an abortion back in high school and that was the cause of their breakup. They lash out at each other, ending it with Jim breaking down and crying on the floor.  Jim walks Amanda to her car the next morning, and Amanda explains her decision. Jim asks her to read the letter he didn't send her, saying he wanted to keep the baby. Amanda begins to cry, for the first time in five years, and then they laugh about it together. Jim and Amanda then sigh at one another and the screen fades to black.