Eight-year-olds Dylan and Leah discover a magical black stone in the woods. With Leah's family's departure imminent, the two vow to always be friends but never see each other again.  Decades later, Dylan, now a successful novelist, is struck by a car but miraculously survives the accident. Prior to the paramedic's arrival, the woman who was driving exits her car and places a small mysterious stone in Dylan's hand before driving away. Once in the hospital, he rapidly heals from his injuries, which he credits to the power of the stone. Returning home, Dylan reveals to his wife, Emily, that he has not been working on a new book but has instead been using his hacking abilities to uncover "the most secret government and corporate secrets", which he plans to publish in an exposé. His commitment to the project is tested by his wife's descent into drug addiction and eventual overdose, as well as the constant sexual attention paid to him by his best friend Jim's underage daughter. Later, Jim himself is murdered by his wife for valuing taking care of his car over listening to her issues. Distraught, she stages his death as a suicide. Later Dylan finds Jim's body and can't believe he committed suicide but is unable to help him.  Plagued by disturbing dreams of a mystical book, Dylan begins seeing a psychologist, who helps him unearth repressed childhood memories. Doing so causes Dylan to realize that the doctor who attended to him during his recovery from the car accident was an adult Leah and the two are reunited, quickly beginning a sexual relationship. Learning about Dylan's plans to publish the exposé, a mysterious assailant kidnaps Leah. Using psychic powers granted to him by the stone, Dylan rescues her by teleporting into the kidnapper's compound. He then travels to the desert to find the book he sees in his dream. Going to visit his psychologist one last time, Dylan learns that she is, in fact, a ghost.  Dylan publishes his book, hosting a press conference in front of the National Archives Building divulging "the most secret government and corporate secrets". Various congresspeople and corporate executives react to the speech by committing mass suicide to applause from the audience. A camouflaged sniper attempts to assassinate him only for Dylan to kill him by reflecting the bullet using his psychic powers. His mission complete, Dylan and Leah return to the place where they found the stone in the woods as children.