In the San Fernando Valley, Kathy - a police detective - and her partner are investigating the apparent suicide of an unknown woman. Dr. Keener, a middle-aged doctor, attempts to care for her aging mother while coping with her own loneliness. She avoids intimacy, but also longs for it; we see both frustration and anticipation as she waits for phone calls from male colleagues. Dr. Keener decides to seek comfort or escape in Christine, who reads tarot cards. Christine's lesbian partner Lilly is critically ill with an unnamed disease, possibly cancer.  Rebecca is a successful bank manager who's "not big on regrets". After a three-year involvement with married Robert, she becomes pregnant. Before Rebecca visits Dr. Keener to get an abortion, she has a fling with Walter, a subordinate.  Rose is a single mother who is writing children's books. She develops a sweet crush on a new little-person neighbor, who catches Rose spying on him. Rose later experiences the shock of learning about her son's extensive sexual activity.  Kathy's sister, Carol Faber, is a lovely blind woman who has an active social life. Kathy is attracted to the medical examiner in the suicide case, and her story ends with him taking her out on a date. In an epilogue, Dr. Keener drops into a bar, where she meets the male character, Walter, from the previous stories (possibly the younger male alluded to in Christine's tarot card reading).  Carmen is a woman who appears in five scenes in the five different stories. The first is walking past Dr. Keener's house, another is walking beside Rebecca, a third time is in the grocery store while Rose is shopping, the fourth time is walking past Christine's apartment building at night as Christine looks down from her balcony, and the final time is the post mortem examination by detective Kathy alongside Dr. Sam. Carol's imaginative story towards the end of the film helps explain the instances throughout the movie where she appears. According to Carol, she was back in town to reconnect with her ex, whom she had been talking to for months until her move back to Los Angeles. In each scene, she is, as Carol deduces, preparing for the big date with her ex. In the first scene she is in, she is probably looking for a place to rent; in the second, she is seen carrying her ill-fated red dress; the third has her shopping for toiletries; in the fourth she is walking back to her place, looking visibly heartbroken, and the final scene in the coroners lab echoes the beginning of the film, where she is found dead. Carol's story ends with what Kathy already concluded: she had resorted to suicide because of her grief over a love she, as Carol claims, could not revive, like the baby she had lost many years before.