DARPA researcher Dr. Mark Clyne flies from Virginia to Moldova, in the midst of an ongoing civil war, to be consulted on one of his creations, a line of hyperspectral imaging goggles that have been issued to troops there. After arriving at a US military airbase on the outskirts of Chișinău, he meets with US Army General Orland and CIA officer Fran Madison. They show him footage captured by the troops' goggles of a mysterious, translucent, humanoid apparition that kills almost instantaneously. Clyne suggests that it's not interference, but there is lack of conclusive data to support his theory that the hyperspectral apparitions was indeed responsible. Conversely, Madison believes the sightings to be members of the local insurgency wearing an advanced form of active camouflage and has orders from her superiors to retrieve a sample.  To get a clearer shot of the anomalies and identify them, both Clyne and Madison accompany a team of Delta Force operators led by Major Sessions on an extraction mission to find the missing Utah team that went missing at an apartment complex in Durletsi the day before while engaging the Moldovan insurgents, with Clyne using a powerful hyperspectral camera mounted on one of the armored personnel carriers in order to spot and identify the apparitions. Upon arriving at the location, they discover all but one of the members of the Utah team dead along with the insurgents. The operators then came under attack by the entities, who are impervious to small arms fire and explosives, and kill several of the operators, including group captain Cabrera, forcing the remaining operators to retreat, but find themselves stranded after their carriers were flipped over by a landmine, killing one of the Utah team operators, Comstock, who claimed that he survived the entity attack by hiding himself in the bathtub.   The group takes cover in an abandoned factory habited by two Moldovan children; Sari and Bogdan, where the entities, known locally as "Aratare", are held back by iron filings their late father had planted around the factory in order to protect them. The team sets up radio contact with the airbase and set up a rendezvous. Clyne points out numerous crates filled with iron filings lying around the factory, which the unit uses to turn their grenades into IEDs laced with iron filings to give them a fighting chance while Clyne modifies the hyperspectral camera into a large searchlight, which enables the group to see the apparitions without the need for goggles. The following morning, the whole team, including Sari and Bogdan are forced to evacuate the factory early as apparitions chase after the group. They head for the alternate extraction point at an abandoned plaza suggested by Sari, as reinforcements, armed with hyperspectral searchlights mounted on tanks arrive and launches an attack on the surrounding entities, with the Delta Team group barely managing to escape via airlift as the entities kill Sari's brother Bogdan, and much of the reinforcing soldiers.   The Delta Force group are redirected to a civilian bunker controlled by the allied Moldovan military as their airbase is overrun by the entities. Using information gathered from the wounded Sari, Clyne deduces the apparitions are likely man-made and are made of Bose-Einstein condensate, and the inability to pass through iron shavings and ceramic materials. Working overnight with Orland and the surviving military engineers, he constructs several makeshift pulse weapons capable of breaking down the condensate entities. The next morning, the remaining American soldiers leave the bunker for to the Masarov power plant, as Clyne and Madison believe it is the only facility capable of generating the power needed to create the condensate and where Sari claimed the entities first attacked.   While the soldiers mount an offensive distraction on the roof of the plant, Clyne, and Madison, aided by Toll, and McFadden, descend down to a laboratory near the plant. They learn that scientists, working in weapons research for the former regime, were scanning humans on a molecular level and using advanced 3D printing to replicate them in condensate form. The human test subjects' brains and peripheral nervous systems were then removed and hooked up to a central machine that keeps the condensate copies (or "apparitions") alive, which led to the current situation. With the battle above threatening to release the remaining condensates, Clyne finally finishes activation of the failsafe system, which deactivates the condensate and causing the apparitions to dissipate. Believing that whatever level of consciousness remaining is in pain, he unplugs the human remains from the machine, finally giving them peace.  With the apparitions gone, the US and allied Moldovan military continue their work of taking control of the city from the insurgents while the Department of Defense studies the condensate machine from the laboratory. Clyne bids goodbye to Orland, Sari, and Madison, as he is airlifted back home.