Vincent MacKenna is a retired, grumpy, alcoholic Vietnam War veteran living in Sheepshead Bay, who smokes and gambles regularly. His wife, Sandy, has Alzheimer's and no longer recognizes him, but he poses as a doctor to visit her and does her laundry. Vincent's only close friends are his cat Felix and a pregnant Russian sex worker named Daka. Despite his aggression toward strangers, Vincent has acquaintances who admire and care about him.  Vincent's 30-year-old Chrysler LeBaron  gets hit by a branch felled by his new neighbors' moving van. Maggie Bronstein, a radiology tech in the midst of an acrimonious divorce, and her son Oliver, meet Vincent, who demands payment for the injury. Maggie does her best to provide for Oliver, who is ostracized and bullied at his Catholic school, but is a knowledgeable, friendly boy, warmly welcomed by his new teacher. On his first day at his school, Oliver's phone, wallet, and house keys are stolen by his classmate Robert. Oliver asks Vincent if he can stay at his home until his mother comes home from work. Vincent offers to continue "babysitting" for a fee.  Vincent picks up Oliver daily after school because Maggie often has late shifts. Vincent's ideas of after-school activities involve visits to racetracks and bars. The mismatched pair begin to help each other mature. Vincent teaches Oliver how to defend himself from bullies, resulting in Oliver breaking the nose of a bully who later apologizes and gives back what he stole. Oliver befriends the boy, who introduces himself as Robert. Vincent and Oliver win a high-odds bet on the horses, enabling Vincent to pay off some of his debts. After staff in Sandy's nursing home have told him he is behind on fees and Sandy will be moved, Vincent steals money from Oliver's bank account when his own accounts are overdrawn, and takes it to the racetrack. He gambles this money away hoping for a big win.  Vincent is confronted in his home by loan sharks Zucko and Antwan who attempt to take Sandy's jewelry. Vincent suddenly falls to the ground, and Zucko and Antwan leave him on the floor. Oliver finds him and calls emergency services. Vincent is hospitalized, told he has had a stroke, and has to undergo physical therapy. Oliver, Maggie, and Daka help Vincent recover, but his language remains stilted.  Oliver's father, a lawyer, finds out about Vincent and uses the information on gambling, introducing Oliver to a prostitute, etc. to get joint custody with Maggie. Having been unaware of Vincent’s activities, Maggie tells Vincent that he can no longer see Oliver.  Vincent becomes depressed after finding out that Sandy died while he was hospitalized. He is given a box containing her few belongings, and her ashes.  For his "Saints Among Us" school project, Oliver asks around the neighborhood about Vincent's past. Later, he nominates Vincent at the school's assembly, publicly declaring him “St. Vincent of Sheepshead Bay” and presenting him with a medal. Oliver's rationale comes from his teacher's definition of sainthood as a person showing 'commitment and dedication' and some sacrifice. Vincent fits this in terms of his wife; he also saved two fellow soldiers during the Vietnam War. The rest seems debatable, as gambling and theft don't seem the best course of action to raise money for nursing home fees. However, the school audience is impressed by Oliver's speech and applaud Vincent, who has been tricked into attending the event by Daka.  Some time later, Daka gives birth to a baby girl and she, along with Maggie, Oliver and Robert, go to Vincent's house, where they eat and happily talk.