Wesley Deeds is the CEO of the family-owned Deeds Corporation. Although he is incredibly wealthy, he has little in the sense of freedom and has come to adapt to a certain predictable lifestyle noted by his fiancée Natalie. One day before work, Wesley picks up his younger brother Walter, who lost his driver's license after a string of DUIs. They have lunch with their mother, the respectable Wilimena Deeds, who later meets with Natalie, Natalie's mother, and Natalie's best friend Heidi at the bridal shop. The two mothers urge Natalie to think about her future with Wesley, specifically children.  On the impoverished side of town, Lindsey Wakefield, a single mother and janitor for the Deeds Corporation, finds out from her building superintendent Milton she will be evicted by her landlady if she doesn't pay her bills soon. Lindsey rushes to pick up her check from work and ends up parking in Wesley's reserved spot, leaving her six-year-old daughter Ariel in the car. Wesley and Walter find Ariel who is too shy and scared to speak to them. Lindsay finds out from her boss that the IRS is holding most of her pay for the next six months, forcing her to take on the night shift to make up for the lost income. She returns to find her car towed and argues with Wesley and Walter. Wesley takes pity on Ariel and decides to let them have their car back. Lindsey takes Ariel to school while Wesley has a meeting with his co-worker and best friend, John, over acquiring a company Wesley's father has been competing against for years.  After work, Lindsey discovers she has been evicted. Taking her belongings, she picks up Ariel from school and works the night shift, where Ariel is forced to sleep in the broom closet as Lindsay works. While working late, Wesley catches Lindsey making a call to the IRS with a company phone which is grounds for termination. She is at first hostile to him, not realizing he is the CEO of the company, but begins to soften up and he again decides to let her off the hook. Wesley sees them parked outside the building after her shift is over, and decides to watch over them until Lindsey's "boyfriend" comes for them. Wesley then introduces himself to Ariel and reveals to Lindsay that he is in fact the CEO of the company. He takes Lindsey and Ariel out for pizza where the trio make a bond.  Meanwhile that night, Natalie and Heidi, who is also John’s wife, attend a fashion show in support of their friend Mark Freeze. When her friends bring her home, she tries to initiate sex with Wesley with the curtain’s open. Wesley is put off by this which angers a drunken Natalie who calls him out on being predictable and never spontaneous.  Wesley struggles to expand the business with Walter sabotaging the purchase of a long time rival company of Deeds Incorporated. John tries to warn him that Walter might be purposely trying to make Wesley fail so he can prove to everyone that he should be the one running the company. Wesley however, refuses to believe this.  Ariel's teacher finds out that Lindsey and Ariel are homeless and threatens to call child services. Wesley finds out as well later that night when working late again and finding Ariel in the broom closet. He brings her to his office and confronts Lindsey when she comes looking for her. He criticizes her for her treatment of her daughter and the responsibility she has put on her shoulders as a six year old. She tells him that he could never understand the choices she has had to make as a mother because he lives an incredibly privileged life.  Wesley at that point forward tries to make their lives a bit easier since Lindsey has to bring Ariel with her to work at night. Lindsey also begins to bring out a more fun spirit in Wesley, and he begins to break from his predictable routines, which Natalie notices. However, since Ariel hasn’t been in school, child welfare was notified and takes Ariel to a foster home. Wesley watches in despair as Ariel is taken from her mother and offers Lindsey a rent-free corporate apartment, which allows her to regain custody of Ariel. When Wesley reveals he has always wanted to ride a motorcycle, Lindsey rents one and the pair ride across the countryside. They stop by a pond, where they kiss. Wesley admits he is engaged, and Lindsey leaves.  Deeds Incorporated takes over the rival company, but Walter ruins the celebration with his outburst. Lindsey arrives at the party to talk to Wesley, and although initially wanting to leave after seeing the wealthy crowd, Walter forces her to stay. Walter suggests to Wilimena that Wesley and Lindsey are having an affair. Wilimena hints to Lindsey that Wesley would not stay with someone poorer for long. Natalie, Wesley, Walter, Wilimena, and Lindsey become trapped in an elevator after Wesley and Walter fight. Natalie and Wilimena notice Lindsey reaching for Wesley's hand, which was injured in the fight.  Wesley visits Lindsey that night, but she rejects him. Wesley and Natalie realize that, although they love each other, their marriage would not be happy because they are only together for their parents. They announce their split at their engagement party. Wesley also reveals he is quitting and traveling to see his old friends. He hires John as the new CEO of Deeds. Although initially angry, Walter accepts this and begins to make a change in his behavior and become more responsible.  Wesley tells Lindsey he is going to Nigeria and invites Lindsey and Ariel along. Lindsey again rejects him as she is afraid of rejection.  After being seen off by Wilimena, Wesley boards his plane. As the plane is taking off, he sees Lindsey and Ariel sitting across the aisle. Wesley and Lindsey kiss while Ariel looks on happily.