The film is set in New York City and Long Island. Misanthrope Amanda Sandford arranges an impromptu weekend getaway at a lavish vacation rental near a beach with the goal of spending quality time together with her family. She and her husband Clay drive to the rental on Long Island with their teenage son Archie and younger daughter Rose.  While shopping for groceries, Amanda notices a rugged man (Danny) stocking up on large quantities of canned food and water. Later, while the family relaxes at a nearby beach, they narrowly escape an oil tanker that ran ashore. When they return to the house, they notice the TV and Wi-Fi aren't working and a pair of deer stare at the house from beyond the pool.  That night, the wealthy owner, George H. ("G.H.") Scott, and his college-age daughter, Ruth, unexpectedly interrupt the Sandfords' vacation. Seeking shelter, G.H. explains that a blackout in Manhattan compelled their return. Amanda is suspicious and does not want them to stay; Clay however trusts them and lets them stay the night.  The next morning, Rose is frustrated that the Wi-Fi and TV are still down, which has prevented her from watching the series finale of Friends. Amanda notices news alerts on her phone about the blackout, most of which are about hackers, and the final one showing a corrupted message. Bored, Rose witnesses a large herd of deer motionless in the backyard.  Attempting to learn about the disruptions and fix the Wi-Fi, Clay drives to town while G.H. heads to his neighbors' house. Clay abandons a non-English speaking Hispanic woman desperately seeking help and spots a drone dropping leaflets written in Arabic. Meanwhile, G.H. searches a neighbor's ransacked home, discovers the wreckage of a plane crash on the nearby beach, and narrowly escapes a second one.  Elsewhere, Rose walks along with Archie in the nearby woods, where they come across an empty shed, and Archie removes a tick from his ankle on the way back. Returning to the house, G.H. confides to Amanda the events he witnessed. He theorizes that nationwide satellite connectivity has been disrupted, but he is cut off by a loud, shrill sonic attack. Amanda recalls the man stockpiling water, whom G.H. assumes is Danny, his housing contractor. Clay returns shaken with the leaflet, which Archie partially translates as "Death to America". Fed up, the Sandfords flee the rental, intending to drive to Amanda's sister in New Jersey, but find the highway jammed with collided self-driving Teslas; they narrowly avoid more incoming Teslas, and they are forced to return to G.H.'s house.  Throughout the night, Ruth asks Clay provocative questions and later discovers flamingoes in the pool. Amanda and G.H. establish a friendly bond around music from the new jack swing era, but are startled by a second shrill sonic attack, then the power fails. Later, Rose tells Amanda a story from an episode of The West Wing where God attempts to save a man from a flood with several warnings and escape opportunities, saying that she is tired of waiting.  The next morning, Archie's teeth inexplicably fall out. Believing it is related to the tick bite, G.H. suggests visiting Danny for medicine. Rose, however, is missing. G.H. and Clay take Archie to visit Danny, while Amanda and Ruth search for Rose. At the shed, the two are confronted by a herd of deer, which they scare away. Meanwhile, G.H. and Clay attempt to convince Danny to help Archie, which results in an armed standoff between G.H. and Danny. Clay intervenes, convincing Danny to help Archie. Afterwards, Danny tells G.H. that another neighbor may be equipped with an underground bunker and suggests that the noise and Archie's teeth falling out are the results of a microwave weapon.  Shaken, G.H. hypothesizes to Clay and Archie that the country is in the midst of a three-stage military campaign that will culminate in a coup d'état. At the same time, Amanda and Ruth watch New York City being bombed and hear gunfire in the distance. Meanwhile, Rose has found the neighbor's house with the bunker, empty. Inside, a computer message warns of attack by rogue armed forces and elevated radiation levels across multiple U.S. cities. She finds a DVD of Friends, and watches the series finale.