A meteor shower rockets through the dark galaxy, and four glowing pods hide behind it. Suddenly the pods make a hard right and head towards the distant planet Earth.  In a Chicago suburb, Stuart Pearson (Kevin Nealon) and his wife Nina (Gillian Vigman) head a family that includes 7-year-old Hannah (Ashley Boettcher), 17-year-old Bethany (Ashley Tisdale), who sneaks out with her boyfriend Ricky Dillman (Robert Hoffman), and 15-year-old techno-geek Tom (Carter Jenkins). Tom tired of being bullied for being smart, fails his classes to look cool for his peers, but hacks the school's system to change his grades back, only to get caught by his parents. After arguing with Tom, Stuart takes the family to a rented lakeside vacation house in Creek Landing, Michigan. Joining them is Stuart's immature divorced brother Nathan "Nate" Pearson (Andy Richter), his 14-year-old show off son Jake (Austin Butler), identical 12-year-old gamer twins Art (Henri Young) and Lee (Regan Young), and Stuart and Nate's mother Rose (Doris Roberts). Ricky also arrives unexpectedly and talks his way into staying overnight, by faking his car broke down so he can spend time with Bethany.  As the family settles in, dark storm clouds swirl around the house and the four glowing pods land on its roof. A crew of little aliens emerges: consisting of Skip (J. K. Simmons), a nasty and tough commander, Tazer (Thomas Haden Church), an ugly muscle-bound soldier armed to the teeth, Razor (Kari Wahlgren), a lethal soldier in a love/hate relationship with Tazer, and Sparks (Josh Peck), a four-armed engineer and the only non-threatening member. As the aliens crash into the satellite dish, Ricky and Tom volunteer to fix it. In the attic, Ricky then reveals to Tom that he lied about his car breaking down and being 18. He is actually a college senior and four years older than Bethany. Ricky sends Tom to fix the satellite dish by himself, but it is smashed. Investigating further, Tom and Jake discover the aliens. Ricky is shot by Tazer with a dart-like "mind control plug", so the aliens can control him via remote.  The "Zirkonians" plan to take over Earth and make Ricky attack the boys, but Tom and Jake escape with Hannah and the twins' help. Tazer shoots them with mind control plugs, but they fall off harmlessly, as they do not work on kids due to their brains not being fully developed. The group calls 911, but sheriff Doug Armstrong (Tim Meadows), doesn't believe them and scolds them while the aliens cut the phone wire. The kids decide to protect the adults by keeping the aliens' existence a secret. Tom creates a potato gun to repel the first alien attack from the attic. In the process, they obtain Ricky's controller and turn him against the aliens. The mind-controlled Ricky's actions begin to tear apart his relationship with Bethany.   The kids get the adults out of the house and then ambush the aliens as they try to reach the basement via the air vents. Gentle and non-violent Sparks gets separated from the group and ends up in Hannah's room. She befriends him and he reveals that he wants to return to his family as he is being forced to help with the invasion. Sparks creates weapons for the kids and reveals they are seeking the "Sizematron", a machine buried under the basement for many years that will allow the Zirkonians to invade the planet. The kids' grandmother is mind controlled by the aliens, giving her superhuman strength and agility. Razor believes he's taking Sparks, but the pink suitcase that he was hiding in was actually empty. The kids take the commander hostage in a box. The sheriff shows up and asks to see what's in the box, however the adults' arrival distract him as they invite him to dinner.   At dinner, the commander escapes from the box and takes Ricky's controller and Hannah's bag with Sparks inside. Nana, under the twins' control, defeats Ricky (back under alien control) similar to a fighting video game. However, the aliens capture Jake and Sparks, whom they need to complete their mission, while Bethany discovers the aliens. While rescuing Jake in the basement, Ricky insults Tom and the others and breaks up with Bethany, who finally sees his true colors. The kids attack the aliens and rescue Sparks, although Skip successfully uses the Sizematron, growing 30 feet tall and summoning the Zirkonian invasion ships. The kids use the mind control to sending him and Tazer back to the machine to shrink them. Tazer and Razor (now in love) flee, while Skip is sucked into the damaged machine, which explodes. Sparks calls off the invasion and returns home to Zirkon after bidding farewell to the kids. Having grown closer, the kids resume their vacation, fishing with their parents, while Skip, having survived the explosion yet shrunk to an even smaller size, reappears and bent on revenge, only to be snatched away by a crow and meets his demise.  In a mid-credits scene, Bethany and Tom use the mind control remote and take revenge on Ricky to make him act extremely weirdly in front of his new girlfriend Annie Filkins. Bethany gleefully says she is "so keeping this" after Ricky lands on his testicles on a stair rail.