For twenty years a catatonic Lloyd Christmas has been committed to a mental institution ever since he discovered Mary Swanson was already married at the end of the first film. During a visit, Lloyd's best friend Harry Dunne pleads with him to snap out of it, then discovers that Lloyd has pranked him by faking his condition the entire time.  Harry reveals he needs a kidney transplant, and learns he cannot get one from his parents because he was adopted as a baby. Harry's dad gives him his mail that has been piling up since he moved out. It includes a 1991 postcard from ex-girlfriend Fraida Felcher, stating she is pregnant and needs Harry to call. Upon contacting her, Fraida reveals that she had a daughter named Fanny, who she gave up for adoption. She once wrote Fanny a letter, only for it to be returned and instructed to never contact her again.  Hoping Fanny can provide a kidney, Lloyd and Harry drive to Oxford, Maryland, where she now lives. Dr. Bernard Pinchelow and his wife Adele are Fanny's adoptive parents. Fanny, who has taken the name Penny, is going to a KEN Convention in El Paso, Texas to give a speech on her father's life work. Bernard had wanted Penny to deliver a package to one of the convention heads but, being dim-witted, she ends up forgetting the package and her cellphone.  Adele is secretly trying to poison Bernard to have his fortune, with the help of her secret lover, family housekeeper Travis Lippincott. Harry and Lloyd arrive to inform the Pinchelows of their situation. Bernard realizes Penny forgot the package, which he says contains an invention worth billions. Adele suggests that Harry and Lloyd deliver the package to Penny. Travis accompanies them, hoping to get the box for himself and Adele. He becomes increasingly annoyed with the duo, and attempts to kill them after they pull a near death-causing prank on him, although he ends up dying in a train collision. Adele hears of the death from Travis's twin brother Captain Lippincott, a former military man who agrees to help her kill Harry and Lloyd.  The duo arrives at the convention, where Harry impersonates Bernard. They are invited to a seminar, but get into an argument when Harry discovers that Lloyd has developed a romantic attraction to Penny, having seen her photo earlier. Lloyd is escorted out of the convention due to not being on the attendance list. He gets a call from Penny and informs her that he is in town with her dad. Lloyd meets her at a restaurant and deduces that he, not Harry, is Penny's father.  Adele arrives at the convention with Lippincott and exposes Harry as a fraud, telling the convention heads that he stole the package. Fraida also arrives and triggers the fire alarm to create a diversion after she and Penny are denied entry. As the building is evacuated, Harry runs into Fraida and Penny, only to have Lippincott and Adele corner them with guns. Lloyd returns, having been to Mexico to have one of his own kidneys removed for Harry. FBI agents also bust in with Bernard, who reveals that he has been aware of Adele's plot and that his package only contains cupcakes. Fraida learns that it was Adele, not Penny, who wrote "do not contact again" on Fraida's letter. Angered by the unraveling of her scheme, Adele attempts to shoot Penny, but Harry takes the bullet for her and is injured. Adele and Lippincott are arrested.  Harry is rushed to a hospital where he reveals that he was pranking Lloyd about needing a kidney. During that moment, the doctor revealed inside Lloyd's cooler was not his kidney, but a pork chop, indicating that Lloyd was scammed. Fraida reveals that Penny's actual biological father is not Harry or Lloyd but their deceased high school friend, Peter "Pee-Stain" Stainer. As the duo leave El Paso, they spot two women walking in their direction and shove them into a bush as a joke and yell "Bush Club". Harry and Lloyd run off and high-five each other.  In a post-credits scene, Harry and Lloyd inadvertently toss milkshakes onto the windshield of Sea Bass, the trucker whom the duo had scammed in the first film, leading to him angrily bearing down on them in his truck. A false advertisement for "Dumb and Dumber For" is then shown, with a camouflaged Captain Lippincott appearing from the advert and walking off-screen.