In the 1950s, young introvert Andy (Sheridan) works at his father Frederick's (Kier) ice rink following the institutionalization, lobotomization, and presumed death of his mother. After Frederick dies suddenly on the ice, Andy encounters family friend Dr. Wallace Fiennes (Goldblum), the man responsible for his mother's lobotomy. He invites Andy to travel with him, having Andy act as his photographer, journalist, and assistant.  The duo travel from asylum to asylum, Wallace performing lobotomies while Andy reluctantly documents. At night, Andy repeatedly attempts to contact his mother's spirit using a planchette. On one occasion, Andy meets a woman who tells him that her daughter Susan is a patient at their next destination. There, they meet Jack (Lavant) and his daughter, Susan (Gross). Jack requests that Wallace perform a lobotomy on Susan, who has been exhibiting rebellious behavior. While Wallace prepares his equipment in the other room, Susan seduces Andy and they start having sex. Wallace interrupts them, then performs the procedure.  Later that night, Andy sneaks out and hitchhikes back to Jack's house, where a drunken Jack rants about life and art in a mixture of French and English. While initially unresponsive, Susan displays affection towards Andy after he touches her. At the next institution, Andy watches as an insubordinate patient is dragged across a hallway by hospital employees. Andy repeats the behavior, destroying the chairs in the hallway and shouting at the hospital attendants just as the patient had before being restrained. Wallace questions Andy, during which he states that Susan was his first sexual encounter, that he believes his dreams are real, and that he believes it has been his mother's spirit communicating through the planchette. Andy subsequently submits to being lobotomized.  Wallace drops Andy off at Jack's home and departs. Andy and Susan attend one of Jack's music therapy sessions. Andy takes Jack's car and drives Susan down a snowy mountain road. He brings the car to a rest, gets out and stands in the snow, shivering and looking toward the mountain's peak.