In the animated fairy tale kingdom of Andalasia, the corrupt and ruthless Queen Narissa plots to protect her claim to the throne, which she will lose once her stepson, Prince Edward, finds his true love and marries. She enlists her loyal servant Nathaniel to keep Edward distracted by hunting trolls.   Giselle, a young woman, dreams of meeting a prince and experiencing a "happily ever after." She, her chipmunk friend Pip, and animals from the forest work together to make a homemade statue of her true love. Edward hears Giselle singing and sets off to find her. Nathaniel frees a captured troll to kill Giselle, but Edward rescues her. She and Edward are instantly attracted to each other and plan to be married the following day.  Disguised as an old hag, Narissa intercepts Giselle on her way to the wedding and pushes her into a well, where she is transformed into a live-action version of herself and transported to New York City's Times Square in the real world. A frightened Giselle quickly becomes lost.   Meanwhile, Robert Philip, a divorce lawyer, plans to propose to his girlfriend, Nancy. He and his young daughter Morgan encounter Giselle on their way home, and Robert reluctantly allows Giselle to stay in their apartment at the insistence of Morgan, who believes she is a princess.  Pip and Edward embark on a rescue mission to the real world, where they, too, are turned into live-action versions of themselves. Pip, now a real chipmunk, can no longer speak and only communicates through squeaks. Narissa sends Nathaniel to follow and impede Edward. Narissa gives Nathaniel three poisoned apples that will put whoever eats one to sleep until the clock strikes twelve, after which they will die.   Meanwhile, after Giselle summons insects and vermin to clean Robert's apartment, Nancy arrives to take Morgan to school. She meets Giselle and leaves, assuming Robert is unfaithful. He is initially upset, but he spends the day with Giselle, knowing she is vulnerable in the city. She questions Robert about his relationship with Nancy and helps the pair reconcile by sending her flowers and an invitation to a costume ball at the Woolworth Building.  Edward locates Giselle at Robert's apartment. Although he is eager to take her home to Andalasia and marry her, she suggests they should first go on a date and get to know each other better. Giselle promises to return to Andalasia after the ball that night, which Robert and Nancy also attend. Narissa decides to enter the real world and kill Giselle herself after Nathaniel fails twice to poison her.   At the ball, Robert and Giselle dance romantically with each other. Giselle and Edward prepare to depart, but she feels depressed about leaving Robert behind. Narissa appears as the old hag and offers the last poisoned apple to Giselle, promising that it will wipe her memories. She takes a bite and plunges into sleep with mere minutes to live.  Narissa tries escaping with Giselle's body but Edward thwarts her. Realizing that Narissa never cared about him, Nathaniel reveals her plot and apologizes for his previous actions. Robert realizes that true love's kiss is the only force powerful enough to break the apple's curse. Edward's kiss fails to wake Giselle, so he and Nancy prompt Robert to kiss her instead.   When Robert kisses her, she awakens. Infuriated, Narissa transforms into a dragon and takes him hostage. Giselle takes Edward's sword and pursues Narissa to the top of the building to rescue Robert. Pip comes to support Giselle and causes Narissa to fall to her death on the streets below. Robert almost falls as well, but Giselle rescues him, and they share another kiss on the roof.  A happy new life unfolds for everyone, showing Edward and Nancy falling in love and marrying in Andalasia while Nathaniel, who stays in New York, and Pip, who returns to Andalasia, each write autobiographies based on their experiences in the real world. Giselle starts a prevalent fashion design business and then forms a happy family with Robert and Morgan in New York.