After recently moving to Los Angeles to seek independence, as well as enroll in a fashion and costume design course, Sarah goes apartment hunting and successfully manages to get a spot for a one-bedroom apartment in a seemingly friendly neighborhood complex which houses 30 or so residents. Sarah bonds with some of the residents, most notably Jerry, the manager; Brian, her neighbor; and Edie, an elderly lady. Sarah develops sleep deprivation and lethargy after moving into her new apartment due to loud noises that she always hears at night. Because of her lack of sleep, she forgets to hand in her portfolio to her enrollment course. She confides in her co-worker and friend Lisa, who comforts her. During a barbeque party, Lester, a resident, recommends the book The Power of Community by Charles D. Ellerby to Sarah, which she politely declines.  One night, while unable to sleep, Sarah is attacked and drugged unconscious by Brian and some other residents. When Sarah awakens, she is in a sealed room and Jerry and Brian walk in and reveal to her that the apartment complex is home to a cult and all the residents in the apartment complex are part of the cult and that she has been chosen to become their new member. The cult was started 30 years earlier by a man named Charles D. Ellerby and he has written a book titled The Power of Community, which includes four key principles that the cult members live by. Jerry and Brian have cut off all her contact from the outside world and ensured that no one will try to find her now that she is in the cult's captivity.  Sarah unwillingly undergoes a torturous initiation process that every resident before her also had to endure. Once it is over, she is given a copy of The Power of Community and she is told to read and study the book. Sarah is also given a few other tasks to perform in order to contribute to the cult, such as marrying Lester, carrying out surveillance of the members via CCTV footage, and cooking for the children. Initially resistant to the cult, Sarah is slowly brainwashed into accepting and joining it as they promise her a sense of belonging and purpose. Eventually, Sarah is branded with the cult's logo after taking a lie detector test that shows she has truly become sincere about wanting to be in the cult.  Some time later, the cult reopens its doors to find a new member under a guise of an open house seeking a new resident. Sarah discovers that her friend and for co-worker Lisa has come to the open house. She is shocked when she learns that Jerry has chosen Lisa as the next member and she warns Jerry that the strong-minded Lisa will be hard to convert. During Lisa's forced initiation process, Sarah reveals herself to Lisa and tells her that joining the cult will change her life for the better. Lisa, however, manages to get Sarah back to sanity and Sarah realizes she has to escape the cult. They attempt an escape together, but Lisa is shot dead by Jerry in the process.  Sarah manages to take away Jerry's gun from him and she proceeds to kill Jerry and Brian who try to stop her from escaping. Sarah escapes the apartment complex and runs happily into the streets thinking she is free. Once outside, she realizes that all the houses on the surrounding property belong to CDE residences (abbreviation of Charles D. Ellerby, the founding father of the cult) and the logo for CDE residences is the same as that for the cult. An alarm sounds for all of the buildings and she realizes that she will be hunted by the cult members. Sarah runs down the street, determined to escape.