The film follows two anti-terror officers from Istanbul, sent to New York City to find and bring back a Turkish religious man named Hadji Gümüş, who they suspect is the man they've codenamed Dajjal, a terrorist who is responsible for attacks in Turkey.  Hadji is arrested in the United States, in his home in New York City by FBI agents during prayer. His Christian wife, Maria, and American friend, Marcus (a devout Muslim convert), as well as close friends and family do what they can to protect Hadji, who they faithfully believe is innocent.  Hadji is on the Interpol list but has no criminal history in the US, so he is extradited back to Turkey instead. Acar and Firat are the two Turkish agents who are escorting him back. Acar is fluent in English and gets angry at FBI senior agent, Becker, for his hostility over all Muslims and the Islamic faith.  The film focuses on Islamophobia in Turkey and the United States after September 11 attacks, seeking to answer the question of whether innocence or guilt even matters to one who lusts for vengeance.Bitlis locals watch 'Five Minarets in New York'  In a plot twist, Hadji is the innocent devout Moslem man that he always claimed to be, while Firat who was so sure of Hadji's guilt, must come to terms with his deadly mistake in seeking vengeance in the end.  As the movie develops, Acar starts to also believe in Hadji's innocence and tries to get Firat to admit to himself that he got the wrong man, but Firat refuses to accept that he has the wrong man.  Back in Turkey, the real terrorist leaders are eventually caught, and the other agents discovered that Firat's father was supposedly killed by Hadji back in the 1970s; they realize that Firat was the one that had led them to Hadji all along.  Eventually, everyone is convinced of Hadji's innocence and he is released; but before returning to the US he wants to see his old mother again in his hometown. Firat and Acar insist on taking him and Maria themselves as a show of apology for the ordeal they've put on Hadji and his family and friends.  After reuniting with his mother and sitting outside her home, as he's introducing Maria and the two Turkish agents to his mom, Firat's grandfather shoots Hadji dead, which prompts Acar to automatically shoot the grandfather dead as well.