Illegal immigrant Natasha Kingsley lives in NYC with her parents and brother. The day before their deportation to Jamaica, she tearfully pleads their case in the immigration office. She is redirected to Jeremy Martinez, who does pro bono work for such cases.  Korean teenager Daniel Bae is preparing for an interview for Dartmouth College. His parents expect him to become a doctor, while his brother, Charles, is dismissive and rude.  Daniel and his friend Omar get on the same delayed subway car as Natasha. The conductor reassures the passengers and tells them about his friend who would have died in the 9/11 attacks had he not missed a train that day.  When Daniel and Omar get off at Grand Central Station, Daniel notices Natasha wearing a jacket that reads “Deus ex machina,” a phrase he had written in his notebook earlier, and decides to follow her.  When Daniel sees a car crash into a cyclist, he saves Natasha from being hit. Shaken, they sit down and talk. She asks Daniel about his notebook, which he says is filled with poetry. Natasha dismisses love poems, as she doesn’t believe in it. Daniel proposes he can make her fall in love with him in one day, then suddenly a call moves his interview ahead one day. Suddenly free, Daniel tells Natasha about a love experiment in which couples ask each other a series of intimate questions, then stare into each other’s eyes in silence for four minutes. They agree to answer several questions from the study.  Daniel escorts Natasha to Jeremy’s office, in the same building where Daniel will have his interview. She is told by his assistant that he got hit by a car while biking (the same car that almost hit Natasha) and is in the hospital, so their meeting is pushed to 4:30. Natasha continues to hang out with Daniel.  Stopping by Daniel’s parents' black haircare shop, he's embarrassed by both his brother Charles and his father. They go to a planetarium and a Korean karaoke bar, where Daniel sings “Crimson and Clover” to her. Natasha imagines their life together, and they share their first kiss. Suddenly remembering her appointment with Jeremy, she rushes out, upset. Daniel chases after her, so she reveals their deportation. She meets with Jeremy, who offers to set up a new trial for their case for the next day.  Daniel goes back to his parents’ shop, getting into a fight with Charles. Shortly afterwards, Natasha enters and asks for Daniel’s number. Seeing that she really likes him, Charles gives it to her. Natasha and Daniel reunite, take the cable car to Roosevelt Island, and spend the night outside together.  The next morning, Daniel interviews for Dartmouth with Jeremy in his office. Natasha barges in for her case's verdict, and they realize his interviewer is her lawyer. She is told her case was rejected, and her whole family must leave the country that day, so she angrily leaves. Daniel cuts the interview short to go after her. He walks her home and meets her family before they head to the airport.  There, Daniel and Natasha complete the last part of the experiment, staring deeply into each other's eyes for four minutes. As they are gazing, Natasha is shown returning to Jamaica and going to school, while Daniel attends Hunter College instead and works in a restaurant. When the time is up, Natasha tells Daniel she loves him. He tearfully says his experiment worked.  Five years later, Natasha has returned to NYC on her way to San Francisco for grad school. She meets Jeremy in the same coffee shop where she'd been with Daniel. She learns Jeremy had married the doctor who treated him for his bicycle crash on the day they met. Natasha asks him about Daniel, but he hasn’t seen him again. Jeremy leaves and Natasha prepares to go when she hears Daniel’s voice, about to read a poem. She spins to see him, and he asks to spend time with her. Natasha tells Daniel she has only an hour, and they kiss.