With the Germans apparently near defeat in the latter part of World War II, a squad of American soldiers from the 2nd Infantry Division on a routine mission near Elsenborn in the Belgian Ardennes encounter a surprisingly strong German tank destroyer and infantry force.  After a fierce firefight, the Americans escape and try to make their way back to their own lines to report the German surge.  En route, they stumble across a German experimental site, still smoldering with flames from some devastating event. One of the many gaping plot holes is that this site is identified in the film as Heidenfeld, Thuringia in Germany, which is hundreds of kilometers away from the film's original stated setting in Belgium.  They come across an American OSS agent suffering from horrific burn wounds, and learn that the Germans are close to development of a super-bomb which will enable them to turn the tide of war and achieve victory. The OSS agent, knowing that he is near death, asks the soldiers to complete his mission: to find the bomb; disable it; and extract the scientist developing it, who wishes to defect. With their sergeant and other NCOs dead, the youngest of the soldiers, Nate Burrows Jr. and the more experienced Dean Ransom (a cook who had been demoted from Lieutenant after the D-Day landings) lead them deep into Nazi territory. There, they are joined by escaped British airman Brent Willoughby and Red Army soldier Ivan Puzharsky. Discovered and pursued, the Allies make a series of hair-breadth escapes from vastly superior numbers of well-armed Nazi soldiers and finally make contact with a woman named Kestrel, their link to the atomic bomb and to the scientist Dr. Luca Gruenewald.  In the end, the squad manages to escape the Nazi facility as the Allied bombers decimate the place. Ivan escaped with the documents of Gruenewald's research. The squad, Doctor Gruenenwald and Kestrel safely reach Allied-controlled territory. Nate and his squad are briefed by his superiors that they will not receive any recognitions or rewards and they must keep the secret of their mission in order to keep the secrets of the atomic bomb.