Derrick is an aspiring music producer whose major accomplishment is the discovery of DJ Killionaire, an artist now generating millions for record executive Tommy Maxell. Derrick feels cheated by Maxell when he does not receive his believed share of the profits due to fine print in the contract. His lack of income leads to a fight with his father Big Earl, the owner of a children's academy as well as a Christmas tree lot in Compton, California, during the week before Christmas.  Big Earl suffers a heart attack and during his recovery he signs documents giving Derrick co-ownership of the house and the Christmas tree lot in an attempt to teach him responsibility. When Maxell threatens steal female trio Sugar Stuff out from Derrick's management, Derrick seeks revenge on Maxell by posing as an exterminator and robbing a $300,000 pink diamond ring from Maxell's house. He attempts to sell the stolen ring through the intermediary Delicious, a pawn shop owner, but the first prospective buyer is a local criminal who attempts to rob the ring and has to be chased off. Urgently in need of money in order to extend Sugar Stuff's contract, Derrick puts up the Christmas tree lot as collateral for a $150,000 loan from loan shark Ernesto Martinez, who demands repayment and an additional $25,000 in interest by Christmas Eve. Tommy Maxell buys the loan from Ernesto Martinez in order to take the Christmas tree lot as collateral and also hires criminals to steal back the ring from Delicious. Derrick and his friends go on a promotional frenzy for Sugar Stuff by selling their CD all over Compton in order to push their contract price up so that Maxwell will be convinced to tear up the loan in return for being allowed to sign Sugar Stuff to his label. They get involved in a car crash with a local hustler who listens to their story in prison and is moved to help them because his nephew attends Big Earl's academy. His crew rapidly distributes Sugar Stuff's CDs to the local radio stations and distributes their music on iTunes, quickly earning over $100,000. Big Earl forces Derrick to sign back ownership of the Christmas tree lot to him, but the papers are actually for ownership of Sugar Stuff. Big Earl negotiates with Maxell, who agrees to build a community center on the lot and employ Derrick as a producer for the artists on the label in return for ownership of the lot and the ability to sign Sugar Stuff to his label. Big Earl says that he will simply take the money that was made that day and buy another lot with it.