Andre Kriegman (born July 17, 1982) and Calvin "Cal" Gabriel (born February 5, 1983) announce their intention to attack their high school, Iroquois High School, calling their plan "Zero Day". Cal and Andre are extremely troubled teens. Cal suffers from suicidal thoughts and ideation, also depression, while Andre is a violent and hateful individual. They keep a video diary on the camera, carefully hiding their plans from their friends and families. The majority of the film is portrayed through their video filming and shows them planning, preparing, and mentioning some of their motives, like bullying or depression.  Other scenes show the two attending Andre's birthday party, egging the house of Brad Hoff, and Cal going to the prom while Andre works at a pizza place. In one video entry, Cal notes the origin of the name "Zero Day": Cal and Andre originally planned to attack the school on the first day when the temperature dropped to zero degrees after they had finished their preparations. However, this only occurred once, during which Andre was sick, and they set May 1, 2001, as the new date. Wanting their attack to have a memorable name, they agreed to keep the original title.   The two arrive at school on May 1 and prepare their plan and weapons in Andre's car. Andre says that he could never have carried out Zero Day without his partner Cal's help, a sentiment that Cal echoes. They run into the school, armed with three handguns, an M1 carbine, and a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun, all stolen from Andre's father and cousin. The massacre is shown through the viewpoint of security cameras, with a police response line on top. The dialogue is heard via the cellphone of student Omar who was shot and killed. Shooting at anyone they see and threatening and taunting several witnesses, Andre and Cal kill eleven students, and one school resource officer. They wound eighteen others. The pair eventually see law enforcement surrounding the school after sixteen minutes of shooting. After debating over whether to confront the police in gunfire, the pair decide to commit suicide, shooting themselves.  On May 10, a group of youths film themselves going to a park where they find crosses for the two shooters and light them on fire.