In 1977, Ben and Catherine, two respected scientists leave their jobs to conduct an experiment into human identity. They aim to raise three children contrarily to their genetic predispositions, to prove the ultimate power of nurture over nature.  The parents get funding from Gertz to be able to carry out their experiment. The children are homeschooled to maximize control of the study. Samsonov, hired by Gertz, is a former Olympic athlete and trained psychologist, who helps to care for the kids and regularly keeps a log to report back to him.  Luke is their birth child, and raised to be artistic. He is encouraged to respond artistically to situations and emotions. Maya, adopted from people with a low level of studies, is raised to have a very high academic level. She's given a special diet for intellectual growth. Maurice comes from angry, aggressive people, and is raised to be a pacifist. He meditates daily.  Every six months, Gertz comes to visit and test. At the 12 year mark, he comes with a warning to get much better results soon or he'll pull the plug.  After a psychologist friend of takes the kids on a day trip, deeming them normal, the kids start planning an escape by car. Then Gertz returns to pressure more, causing Ben to use an extreme method to teach Maya, which snowballs into a huge argument with Catherine, in turn the kids try to run off in the car. They cause a huge pile up on the highway, prompting social services to take them.  Gertz threatens them, insisting that they either pay him over a million for breach of contract or sign a release for him to write about the experiment. Once the book is released, the kids are shocked and humiliated, and their parents try to break them out of the school. When they are unsuccessful, they go to Gertz's and Ben hits him in the face with a shovel. Ben is jailed but released a short time later, thanks to Mrs. Tridek, and not long after they are invited to a video montage by Luke, showing all is forgiven.  In the closing, we find out Luke has become a film director, Maya has chosen to explore the world and become an activist for the Animal Liberation Front and Maurice is a lawyer for the Women's Wrestling Federation. Their parents are not together but amicable, enjoying their seven grandchildren.