Part 1: The Ghost of Willow Road  Thomas "Tommy" Graham lives on a farm with his father Josiah. His twin siblings Eli and Mary have long since left the farm.  Two representatives of an oil company are looking to buy the farm and the land around it for oil drilling. The assemblyman they contact for assistance informs them that the Graham property has a troubled past, due to Mrs Graham hanging herself in their garden several decades prior.  Tommy goes to a shop and speaks to a young boy named Tanner, whom he is not supposed to speak to. Later, Tommy admits to Josiah that he looks for his mother at night through the window and notes that  people are talking about her death, causing Josiah to slap him.  Josiah tells Tommy that his mother's spirit visited him while he was asleep, and to clean up the house. Josiah later finds a pornographic magazine under Tommy's bed, forcing him to masturbate to it. That night, Josiah tells Tommy that God has something that needs to be done.   Part 2: Eli and the Gypsies  Eli Graham is a convicted sex offender who did time for the statutory rape of a sixteen year old girl five years prior and is in deep debt due to gambling and drugs. He is briefly arrested due to a 9 year old girl having gone missing in the vicinity.  Eli is forced to accept a job from Boone to steal some Nazi gold from a band of gypsies in exchange for his record being cleared and his debt being settled. He is accompanied by two men, and is tasked with keeping the gypsies distracted at a party they are having while the two men steal the gold.  At the party, Eli bonds with Gina, a gypsy, who offers to provide consultation with a fortune teller. The fortune teller reads his palms and initially provides innocuous details about Eli, but later says that Eli is going to die and that he could not save "her". She then reads his tea leaves and says that he is the reason his mother is burning, he is running from something "unspeakable" and that he has come to steal their gold. The gypsies proceed to kill the two men Eli came with; during the commotion, he spots the missing girl in the building.  Eli obtains the chest containing the gold and rescues the girl. They manage to escape the pursuing gypsies by car, and Eli brings the gold to Boone. Boone falls over dead while examining the gold. Eli brings the girl to the sheriff, who lets him go. He returns to the trailer he lives in and finds a letter from the oil company offering to buy the farm.   Part 3: Mary May I  Mary Milner and her husband Ross are looking to have her 20-year tubal ligation operation undone as she is looking to have a child. That night, Mary expresses doubt about how wonderful it is to raise children while having dinner with Ross's relatives. Ross angrily confronts her about her remarks and over past threats she made to kill herself. While sleeping, she dreams that she is stabbing herself in the stomach.  The next day, Eli arrives at Mary's place to discuss the offer by the oil company to buy the farm. Eli tries to convince her to sign off on the offer, but she decides she'll go back to the farm, so that she'll know it's gone for good.  Mary and Eli arrive at the farm and reunite with Tommy for the first time in years. Tommy informs Josiah that the twins have arrived, and Josiah says that they are the reason their mother is "burning" while watching them walk through the garden. Tommy and Mary talk together in the kitchen, while Eli tries to dig up something buried in the garden without success.  That night, the three siblings sit together with Josiah, and it is revealed that Tommy has been repeatedly and unknowingly violating his restraining order against his ex-wife and their son Tanner. Tommy accuses Eli and Mary of committing incest. It is then revealed that Josiah has been dead for 23 years and Tommy has been interacting with a hallucination of him throughout the film. Josiah abused Tommy and Eli and molested Mary when they were children. Mrs Graham killed herself after learning that Mary had become pregnant, which prompted the three siblings to kill Josiah and bury his body.  Eli breaks open a chest to reveal the skeletons of Josiah and Mary's unborn child. Tommy snaps completely and kills Eli and Mary with an axe. Josiah is seen drinking from a cup while seated on his chair. The final scene reveals that Eli and Mary indeed committed incest at the motel they stayed at prior to coming to the farm.