During the American Revolutionary War in 1776, Captain Benjamin Martin, a French and Indian War veteran and a widower with seven children, is called to Charlestown to vote in the South Carolina General Assembly on a levy supporting the Continental Army. Fearing war against Great Britain and not wanting to force others to fight when he will not do so, Benjamin abstains, but the vote passes, and Benjamin's oldest son, Gabriel, joins the army against his father's wishes.  Two years later, Charlestown falls to the British, and a wounded Gabriel returns home carrying dispatches. The Martins care for both British and Americans who are wounded from a nearby battle before British dragoons, led by Colonel William Tavington, arrive to arrest Gabriel with the intention of hanging him as a spy, and press gangs Benjamin's African American former slaves into the British army. Tavington shoots Gabriel's brother Thomas dead when he tries to free him and orders the Martins' house burned and all wounded Americans to be executed. After the British leave, Benjamin and his two younger sons ambush the British convoy transporting Gabriel with muskets. Benjamin skillfully but brutally slaughters all but one of the British troops in front of his children. The survivor tells Tavington of the attack, which earns Benjamin the moniker of the "Ghost".  Gabriel rejoins the Continentals, and Benjamin soon follows and leaves the younger children in the care of Benjamin's sister-in-law, Charlotte. While they travel, they witness American soldiers and militiamen under General Horatio Gates engaging the British Army at the Battle of Camden. Benjamin points out the foolishness of undisciplined and untested men fighting well-trained British regulars on open ground; unsurprisingly, the Continentals are decisively routed.  Benjamin meets his former commanding officer, Colonel Harry Burwell, who appoints him as colonel to raise a militia unit because of his combat experience and places Gabriel under his father's command. Benjamin is tasked with weakening Lord Cornwallis's regiments by a sustained campaign of guerrilla warfare. French Major Jean Villeneuve helps train the militia and promises more French aid. Gabriel asks his father why Villeneuve and others often mention Fort Wilderness. Benjamin, who used to be hesitant to answer, finally tells him. While fighting in the British Army, Benjamin and several other soldiers discovered French soldiers committing an atrocity against British colonists. Enraged, they caught up with the retreating French at Fort Wilderness and killed all but two of them. The survivors had to gather the heads of their comrades and present them to the Cherokee, which convinced the tribe to betray the French and to support the British. Benjamin said that, following this, he was regarded as a hero, yet never forgave himself and, daily, begged God's forgiveness.  Benjamin's militia ambushes many British patrols and supply caravans, including some of Cornwallis's personal effects and his two Great Danes, and burns bridges and ferries that Cornwallis needs. Cornwallis angrily blames Tavington for his setbacks but, after Benjamin uses what Cornwallis perceives as a dishonorable ploy to free some of the captured men, allows Tavington to do everything possible to stop the attacks.  With the aid of Wilkin, a local Loyalist, Tavington has several militiamen's homes burned and their families executed. Benjamin's family flees Charlotte's plantation to live in a Gullah settlement with formerly enslaved residents. There, Gabriel marries his betrothed, Anne. Tavington's brigade raids a town that has been secretly providing the militia with food. He has everyone, including Anne and her parents, assembled in the parish church and demands the location of their camp. After they give it, he has the doors barricaded, and burns it to the ground, killing everyone. When they discover the tragedy, Gabriel and several other soldiers attack Tavington's encampment. Tavington is wounded but, before he retreats, kills Gabriel. Benjamin mourns and contemplates desertion but sees the American flag that he repaired, which reminds him of his son's dedication.  Martin's militia, along with a larger Continental Army regiment, confronts Cornwallis's troops in a decisive battle at the Battle of Cowpens. Benjamin and Tavington meet in personal combat. Tavington disarms and wounds Benjamin with his saber and prepares to deliver the coup de grâce. At the last second, Benjamin dodges the attack and impales Tavington twice in the abdomen and throat, killing him. The battle becomes a Continental victory and Cornwallis retreats.  Cornwallis is finally besieged at Yorktown, where he surrenders to the surrounding Continental Army and the long-awaited French naval force. Afterward, Benjamin returns to his family and discovers members of his former militia unit who are rebuilding his homestead.