In 1987 Los Angeles, Sherrie Christian arrives from Oklahoma with dreams of becoming a singer. Sherrie's suitcase is stolen, and barback Drew Boley gets her a job as a waitress at the Bourbon Room after the previous waitress quits ("Sister Christian/Just Like Paradise/Nothin' But a Good Time").  Desperate to save the club from a tax debt, the club's owner Dennis Dupree and his right-hand man Lonny Barnett book Stacee Jaxx, a detached and self-indulgent rock star preparing for his final gig with his band, Arsenal. Drew tells Sherrie his own dreams of becoming a rock star, but that he has stagefright ("Juke Box Hero/I Love Rock 'n' Roll"). Learning of Stacee's upcoming concert, Patricia Whitmore, the conservative wife of mayor Mike Whitmore, organizes a protest in front of the club ("Hit Me with Your Best Shot").  Drew and Sherrie have their first date at the Hollywood Sign, where Drew reveals he is writing a song for Sherrie ("Don't Stop Believin'"). On the night of Arsenal's final show, Dennis learns the opening act has cancelled; Sherrie convinces him to use Drew's band, Wolfgang Von Colt ("More Than Words/Heaven"). Stacee's manager, Paul Gill, schedules an interview with Constance Sack, a reporter for Rolling Stone.  Constance mentions rumors of Stacee's difficult behavior and implies he was kicked out of Arsenal, which Stacee denies ("Wanted Dead or Alive"). Stacee sends Sherrie for a bottle of scotch from his limo. Constance lashes out at the once-great Stacee; they recognize their mutual attraction and are about to have sex when Stacee sings ("I Want to Know What Love Is"). Ashamed, Constance leaves as Sherrie enters and collides with Stacee. Drew mistakenly believes that Sherrie and Stacee had sex and is angrily inspired to sing ("I Wanna Rock") for the opening act. Drew and Sherrie break up and she quits the Bourbon Room. Paul, impressed with his performance, offers Drew a record deal as Arsenal sings their last song of the night ("Pour Some Sugar on Me").  Sherrie takes refuge at a strip club, the Venus Club, where owner Justice Charlier offers her a job as a dancer ("Shadows of the Night/Harden My Heart"), but Sherrie chooses to wait tables. She realizes she needs more money, as Drew signs to Gill's record label ("Here I Go Again"). Dennis worries the Bourbon Room will close and that he has disappointed everyone. Lonny confesses his love for him, and Dennis reciprocates ("Can't Fight This Feeling"). Drew discovers his record deal makes him part of hip-hop boy band "The Zee Guys" as Joshua Zee, while Sherrie decides to become a dancer at the Venus Club ("Any Way You Want It").  Sherrie visits the Hollywood Sign, where she finds Drew, whose life has also not gone as planned. She tells him she did not have sex with Stacee and will be returning to Oklahoma. They part ways, lamenting their situation ("Every Rose Has Its Thorn").  Stacee realizes his feelings for Constance ("Rock You Like a Hurricane") and calls Rolling Stone to learn that she is covering his show at The Bourbon Room. Stacee rushes to the venue, where Lonny leads the patrons against Patricia's protest group ("We're Not Gonna Take It/We Built This City"). Stacee recognizes Patricia, whom Lonny exposes as a former Arsenal groupie. Drew buys back Sherrie's stolen records and drops them off at the strip club.  As the Zee Guys are rejected by the crowd at the Bourbon Room, Drew spots Sherrie in the audience and leaves the stage. They reconcile, and Drew fires Paul. Sherrie reunites Wolfgang Von Colt onstage, where she and Drew perform the song he wrote for her ("Don't Stop Believin'"). Stacee, having sex with Constance in the bathroom, is moved by the song.  Eight months later, Stacee has rejoined Arsenal and performs the song with Drew and Sherrie, now part of Wolfgang Von Colt, at Dodger Stadium in front of a crowd including Dennis, Lonny, Justice, a pregnant Constance, and Patricia, who has returned to her rock 'n' roll persona.