Dressed in a flamboyant devil's outfit, Elton John enters an addiction rehabilitation session, recounting his life in a flashback ("The Bitch Is Back").  Reginald Dwight grows up in 1950s Britain, raised by his unaffectionate mother, Sheila, and his more loving grandmother Ivy. Reginald is interested in music and hopes to perform for his father, Stanley, who takes no interest in his son ("I Want Love").  Reginald begins piano lessons, making his way into the Royal Academy of Music. Stanley abandons his family after Sheila has an affair. Soon after, Sheila's lover, Fred, moves in with the family and he introduces young Reginald to rock music. Reginald grows up idolizing rock musicians and begins performing in local pubs ("Saturday Night's Alright for Fighting"). As an adult, Reginald joins the band Bluesology, which is hired to play backup for touring American bands The Isley Brothers and Patti LaBelle and the Blue Belles ("Breaking Down the Walls of Heartache"). Ronald Isley recommends Reginald write songs and put his old life behind him to become a famous artist. Reginald changes his name to Elton John, taking his first name from Elton Dean the saxophonist of Bluesology and "John" being adopted from John Lennon.  Elton writes music and tries to find success with Dick James' record label DJM Records under the management of Ray Williams. Williams introduces Elton to lyricist Bernie Taupin; they become friends and move into a flat to compose their songs ("Border Song"). When Elton admits he is homosexual, he ends his romantic relationship with their landlady, and he and Bernie are evicted.  Elton and Bernie move in with Elton's grandmother, his mother, and Fred, where they continue writing and create "Your Song". James sets up a performance for them at the Troubadour in Los Angeles. Elton is nervous before his debut, but the audience embraces his performance ("Crocodile Rock"). Elton is overjoyed by his success but feels abandoned when Bernie leaves him at a party to spend time with a woman ("Tiny Dancer"). He is approached by John Reid, a music manager, and after hitting it off, the pair sleep together ("Take Me To The Pilot").  Elton launches a downward spiral into a life of debauchery while his career rises to new heights ("Honky Cat"). He develops a flamboyant stage persona and becomes one of the most successful artists of the 1970s. Reid becomes Elton's manager and insists Elton tell his parents he is gay, so Elton reconnects with his father, who displays no interest in Elton. Distraught, Elton calls his mother and tells her he is gay. She tells him that she already knew, but that he will be forever unloved. Devastated by his parents' rejection, as well as Reid's increasing physical and emotional abuse, Elton becomes addicted to alcohol, cocaine, cannabis, shopping, and sex. His addictions, mood swings and short temper alienate his friends ("Pinball Wizard").  Elton catches Reid cheating on him and ends their relationship, but Reid continues as his manager. During a party, he overdoses on pills and attempts suicide by jumping into his pool. He is rushed to the hospital, then thrust on stage at Dodger Stadium to perform ("Rocket Man").  Elton descends further into a life of drugs, alcohol, and loneliness ("Bennie and the Jets"). He has a short-lived marriage with a close female friend, Renate Blauel, but his homosexuality dooms their relationship ("Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me"). He falls out with his mother and Bernie ("Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word"). Elton's dependence on prescription pills and alcohol results in a heart attack. Realizing his life is out of control, Elton leaves a concert without warning and seeks help at a rehab center ("Goodbye Yellow Brick Road"). Elton realizes he no longer needs approval from his parents or Reid. Elton rekindles his friendship with Bernie, who brings him new lyrics. Elton is worried that he cannot perform or compose without alcohol or drugs, but writes "I'm Still Standing" and returns to a successful career.  The epilogue notes that Elton has been sober for over 28 years. He remains good friends and song-writing partners with Bernie and is happily married to David Furnish, with whom he has two children.