Turmoil erupts in Nigeria following a military coup d'etat led by General Mustafa Yakubu in which President Samuel Azuka and his entire family are reportedly assassinated. causing tensions between the Fulani Muslims and the Christian Igbo. Foreigners evacuate the country and Lieutenant A.K. Waters and his U.S. Navy SEAL team consisting of Zee, Slo, Red, Lake, Silk, Doc, and Flea, board the aircraft carrier , to be dispatched by Captain Bill Rhodes to extract Dr. Lena Fiore Kendricks, a U.S. citizen by marriage to the late Dr. John Kendricks who was killed by rebels in Sierra Leone. Their secondary mission is to extract the mission's priest and two nuns, should they choose to come.  Waters gets to Kendricks, telling her that rebels are closing in on her hospital and the mission, and that his orders are to extract U.S. citizens; however, Kendricks refuses to leave without her patients that she loves so much. Waters calls Rhodes for options; after a brief conversation, he concedes to Kendricks' wishes and agrees to take those refugees able to walk. Kendricks begins assembling the able-bodied for the  hike; the priest and the nuns stay behind to take care of the injured.  Irritated and behind schedule, the team and the refugees leave the hospital mission after daybreak. Back at the mission, the staff and refugees are detained by the rebels. Despite the priest's pleas for mercy, the rebels murder him and the remaining occupants.  When the team arrives at the extraction point, Waters' initial plan becomes clear: the SEALs turn away the refugees from the waiting SH-60B Seahawk helicopter. Waters forces Kendricks into the helicopter against her will, leaving the refugees stranded in the jungle. En route back to Harry Truman, they fly over the original mission compound, seeing it destroyed and all its occupants murdered.  Remorseful, Waters orders the pilot to return to the refugees. He then loads as many refugees as he can into the helicopter and decides to escort the remaining refugees to the Cameroonian border. The team enters a village whose inhabitants are being raped, tortured, and massacred by the rebels.   The SEALs discover the rebels are somehow tracking them, and Slo determines that a refugee is transmitting a signal allowing the rebels to locate them. A newer refugee attempts to run but is shot. A transmitter is discovered on his body, revealing himself to be the rat because his family had been captured by the rebels. The following search for his co-conspirators reveals the presence of Arthur Azuka, the surviving son of late President Samuel Azuka, which they realize is the reason the rebels are hunting them: Samuel Azuka was not only the president of the country, but also the tribal king of the Ibo. As the only surviving member of the royal bloodline, Arthur is the only person left with a legitimate claim to the Ibo Nation.  The SEALs decide to continue escorting the refugees to Cameroon. A firefight ensues when the rebels finally catch up with them, and the SEALs decide to stay behind as rearguard to buy the refugees enough time to reach the border safely. Slo, Lake, Flea, and Silk are killed while Waters, Red, Doc, and Zee are wounded, but redirects air support on the pursuing rebels' location, wiping them out.  Waters, Zee, Doc, and Red managed to survive as Navy helicopters arrive at the border. Cameroon border guards allows the SEALS and the refugees to cross. Rhodes promises Waters that he will recover the bodies of Waters' men. Kendricks bids tearful farewells to her Nigerian friends and flies away in a helicopter, as Arthur is surrounded by his people proclaiming their freedom.