Almost a decade after a mysterious pandemic wiped out most of the female population, Dad and his daughter Rag journey through British Columbia. Rag is one of the very few females of the human species left on Earth. Dad must protect her by disguising her as his son from male bandits who are looking for any female human. In a flashback, before Mom dies, Dad promises to her that he will tell their daughter everything about Mom.  After leaving the woods where they first camped, the two take shelter in an abandoned house. After staying for a few days, the two narrowly escape from four men breaking in looking for them. The father hitches a ride and steals the car from the owner to get themselves to his grandparents' home.  Arriving there, they find that the house is now occupied by Tom and his two friends, Calvin and Lemmy. Tom is a religious man and has a friendly approach to Dad and Rag. At night, the two sneak out their belongings into a nearby cabin in case of a "red alert", a term the father uses when dangerous men are approaching. The next morning, Tom teaches Rag how to use a shotgun for self-defense. Tom eventually suspects that the "son" is a daughter and he questions Dad with concern, not wanting Rag to be in the possession of a random male with evil intentions. He tells Dad that he lost nine female relatives in a matter of weeks, eight to the virus and one to  "a pack of monsters". Moved by the story, Dad admits that Rag is, indeed, his daughter; he proves it with a photo of the family, explaining that Rag is short for Raggedy Ann, as her name is Anna Elizabeth.  Later, three men arrive, barge into the house and kill Tom and Lemmy (Calvin apparently tipped off the intruders). Rag and Dad hide in the attic and he manages to drop her out of the window. He then proceeds to fight and kill the first and then second bandits; however, the last attacker almost strangles him to death. Rag appears and shoots the bandit, killing him but also hitting Dad's side. They go to the cabin, where Rag removes the shot pellet from his wound. While Dad rests, a flashback shows him promising Mom that he will look after Rag. After Rag has treated his wound, he says they will go to the safe place with friendly people that Tom mentioned earlier. As Dad breaks down in tears, Rag comforts him, in the same way Mom did in flashbacks, when Rag was a baby.