Married couple Gina and James live together happily despite her dependence on him due to her blindness. He appears to enjoy the dependence, saying that it makes him feel special. As they try for a baby, Gina prepares for a cornea transplant, which will restore the sight in one of her eyes. The surgery is a success, and she embraces her newfound independence. Immediately, their sex life suffers.   To put the spark back into their marriage, James books them a holiday to Spain, promising Gina that he has reserved the same hotel room they had on their honeymoon. Upon their arrival, she insists the room is not the same, which he denies. Gina is later proven to be correct.  During the trip, Gina is shown to be growing in independence and confidence while James is left behind, seemingly unable to connect to the new, independent version of her that no longer depends on him. Resentful, James begins to show signs of possessiveness.  On their way to Barcelona, they attempt to have sex on a sleeper train. James, blindfolded, demands to know who Gina fantasizes about when she masturbates, doubtful when she answers that she only thinks of him. She finally reveals that she does think of other men. James later watches a video of the encounter, obsessed with his helplessness and Gina's emotionless face.  In Barcelona, Gina and James arrive at her sister's. One night, Gina visits a peep show with her sister and brother-in-law. James declines their invitation to join and appears uncomfortable when Gina's brother-in-law jokingly suggests that, now that she can see, Gina may find someone better looking.   While walking back to the house, Gina is groped by a stranger on the street, whom her brother-in-law punches. Back at her sister and brother-in-law's house, James is mad at Gina for embarrassing him in front of her sister when she got mad at him for not sticking up for her.  Back home in Thailand, Gina begins to have trouble with her vision: her eyes water unusually and her vision worsens. Confused and terrified by her returning blindness, she brings her eye drops to her doctor, who promises to test them for contamination. James learns that he is sterile but does not tell Gina.  While James purchases a new house at Gina's insistence, Gina begins to flirt with Daniel, an attractive man she meets at the public pool. When her dog overheats during a walk, Daniel offers to take them back to his home for water, where he and Gina have sex. She later reveals to James that she is pregnant, unintentionally confirming her affair as she is unaware of his infertility, but James does not confront her. Similarly, when Gina learns from her doctor that her eye drops have been tampered with, she does not confront him. Their home is broken into and their dog is stolen.  Some time later, a visibly pregnant Gina is apparently having trouble with her vision, now in need of her old cane and aid from James. She and James move into their new house. At one point, James tests Gina's blindness, intentionally hiding from her in her blind spot. He makes plans to meet her at a local school for a talent show in which she is performing.   While he is gone, Gina receives an anonymous letter, written in crayon, which reveals that James was who staged the home invasion and released their dog. The writer claims to have rescued the dog but refuses to return it because "when I look into her eyes, she looks back at me, and that is called love."  James goes to their old apartment to collect the last of his and Gina's belongings. In the bathroom, he uncovers a stash of empty eye drop bottles. He realizes that Gina discovered his deception and secretly continued to obtain eye drops from the doctor, meaning that she has been faking her returning blindness. She confirms this when she looks directly at him during the talent show. Distraught, James drives home in tears, and seems to purposefully crash into an oncoming truck and dies.  After Gina gives birth, she and her baby see each other for the first time.