Mikey and his younger brother JP grow up in their teens on the streets with crime, baseball and brothers looking out for one another. Mikey protects JP when he walks in on his Uncle Rich who's committed suicide with a shotgun.   Mikey witnesses Eddie torture and kill somebody who crossed him in the back of the Video Arcade. Later, Mikey gives his lawn mowing job to JP.  Twenty-three years later as adults, Mikey is getting out of jail and JP is running a successful construction company. Sal, a detective friend of JP's warns him about Mikey getting into drugs.    The families celebrate a 4 July picnic with Mikey, his wife Vicki and daughter Alexis being the dysfunctional family and JP and his family being the normal American clan.  JP loaned Mikey $10,000 for braces for his daughter but Mikey bought drugs to flip for a quick profit.  The drugs have been jacked with Rusty being the prime suspect.  Mikey ends up losing the drugs and his money.  Sleezeball mobster Eddie King meets up with Mikey in the club, and decide to stage a kidnapping of Mikey, and Eddie contacts his brother JP demanding $350,000 ransom to free his brother.  Mikey is beat up and the pictures are sent to JP.  JP and Sal, who uses his street knowledge, go looking for leads to free Mikey.  They track down Rusty who admits to stealing the drugs. JP refuses to pay initially.  Eddie's brother shows up and demands Eddie to stop his silly kidnap scheme.  Eddie spent 3 years in jail for his brother Buddy and he does not appreciate the interference.  Eddie ruthlessly and brutally kills his brother Buddy.  Mikey says he's not going to play along with Eddie's scheme any more, Eddie decides to kidnap him for real, and gets his henchmen to beat him up in the car park.  Mikey wakes up tied to a chair in the back of the Arcade where he witnessed that incident all those years ago.  Eddie lets JP know that he killed his own brother so that his threat to kill Mikey is real. Mikey tries to escape and is beaten up yet again. Eddies henchmen kidnap Mikey's daughter Alexis to ensure that exchange goes ahead. JP agrees to meet up with Eddie and pay $200,000.  Mikey goes to the Arcade to rescue his brother, and then, with his brother safe, goes to the meeting with Eddie, but at the money exchange the money bag explodes. Eddie and his henchmen are killed after a bloody long shootout.  Once again the Lindel family enjoys another picnic together.