In the near future, humanity is facing extinction following a global famine caused by ecocide. Cooper's family, which includes his children, Tom and Murph, and his father-in-law Donald, survive by pursuing farming, much like most of humanity. One evening after a dust storm, Cooper discovers a gravitational anomaly inside Murph's bedroom, which creates patterns of falling particles. The pattern resolves into GPS coordinates, which leads Cooper and Murph to a secret NASA facility.   NASA is believed to have shut down but continues to operate, its latest mission being to find a habitable planet beyond the solar system. A team is preparing to travel through a wormhole near Saturn, leading to a faraway galaxy that has three potentially habitable planets, each orbiting the supermassive blackhole called Gargantua. Cooper is asked by Dr Brand, the lead scientist, to pilot the crew due to past experience. Cooper struggles to leave behind Murph, but agrees after promising her to return. Murph acts cold towards Cooper, and refuses to say goodbye. The Endurance spacecraft takes off with three other NASA scientists − Romilly, Doyle and Brand's daughter Amelia − as well as two intelligent robots, TARS and CASE.   Past the wormhole, the crew arrive at the first planet, an ocean world with massive tidal waves. Doyle is swept away within minutes, but Cooper and Amelia survive a round of waves to return to the Endurance. Though they were only gone a few hours, they find that 23 years have passed due to time dilation. Back on Earth, an adult Murph, who is still mad at Cooper, is helping Dr Brand formulate an equation to solve the problem of mass exodus — transporting Earth's population off the planet while escaping its gravity. On his deathbed, Brand reveals that the equation is unsolvable. Murph is left alone to continue his work and turns to her childhood bedroom as the source of the initial anomaly, to look for clues. She comes across the wrist-watch Cooper gave her before he left on her bookshelf.   On the second planet, the crew find the planet's previous NASA explorer, Dr Mann, still alive and in cryostasis. They awaken him, and learn that the planet has positive data linked to habitability. On a scouting mission, however, Mann confesses to having lied so that someone might come and rescue him from the ice-world planet. He sets off a chain of events that results in Romilly's death. He takes the Endurance crew's lander and attempts to seize control of the Endurance. However, TARS removed his clearance to successfully do so, but Mann persists. This attempt leads to his death and a portion of Endurance exploding. Cooper and Amelia regain control of the craft, but, with limited resources, must chart a gravity-assist path around Gargantua to propel the craft to the third planet. At the last moment, Cooper detaches himself and TARS so that Amelia may reach the final planet safely. He and TARS fall beyond the black hole's event horizon.   Inside, Cooper and TARS find a mysterious five-dimensional tesseract where time is a physical dimension. Cooper is able to use gravity to communicate with his past self, and realizes he sent himself the NASA coordinates, initiating this mission. He realizes that the goal is to feed Murph the blackhole gravity-data to help her solve the equation, and encodes the data into the ticking pattern of his wristwatch. Murph finds the watch on her visit there and uses it to solve Brand's equation. The tesseract dissolves, ejecting Cooper and TARS through the wormhole and into Saturn's orbit again, where a present-day (22nd century CE) space-faring O'Neill cylinder picks them up.   Cooper awakens inside a hospital and is reunited with an aging Murph, who is now considerably older than him. Murph asks that Cooper leave her and instead find Amelia. Cooper and TARS set off for the third planet, where Amelia is directing the setup of a new colony in the planet's desert-like environment. Alone on the habitable planet, she takes off her helmet and breathes in the air.