Kingfisher, U.S.A. is home to 40,000 ghosts — mostly victims of the former sanatorium — who live and work alongside the living, but are relocated by Mayor Tracy to an abandoned neighborhood. Perfect Pizza Base driver Sean Hammerschmidt makes a delivery to "Ghost Town", where his throat is slit by an unseen killer.  Kingfisher Chronicle reporter Sadie Sheridan attends Tracy's press conference regarding Sean's murder, which is interrupted by Debbie, a member of local activist group Justice 40,000. Their leader, Vera Marcus, holds a protest outside Perfect Pizza, which is built on the mass grave left by the sanatorium; the group seeks to demolish the Halcyon Square shopping center and lay the city's ghosts to rest. Investigating the murder, Detectives Marsh and Bradley discover that Sean was running drugs for dealer Big Cheese.  Perfect Pizza's owner Jack insists on keeping the store open, despite his staff's reluctance. Determined to solve Sean's murder, his ex-girlfriend and former coworker Astrid asks Jack for her old job back, rejoining employees Scooter, Heather, and Joe, a ghost. Astrid confronts Big Cheese, who is questioned by the detectives and explains that Perfect Pizza was formerly Yummy Yummy Chinese, whose delivery drivers were killed in a previous string of murders. The prime suspect was fellow driver Dax Lycander, a werewolf who left town.  Making another delivery in Ghost Town, Scooter's throat is slit, and Dax is spotted at the scene. Vera and Debbie are revealed to be conspiring with Tracy, bribing him to blame the murders on the ghosts and rally public support for demolishing Halcyon Square. Sadie visits Perfect Pizza with her own research into Dax and the Yummy Yummy murders, while Marsh and Bradley track down Dax. Chased into a junkyard, Dax saves Bradley from being crushed and is arrested, but maintains his innocence.  Reuniting with Sean's ghost, Astrid is disappointed to learn he is still a drug addict, before she is stabbed from behind and becomes a ghost herself. Dax escapes police custody, and Sadie realizes that Vera and her group are actually a coven of witches responsible for the murders; they have inducted Heather as their newest member. Sadie brings her discovery to the werewolf-hating Marsh, who insists that Dax is guilty. Tracy publicly declares the murders are not the work of ghosts, upsetting the coven's plans.  Heather sneaks into Perfect Pizza's basement, and Dax abducts Sadie, urging her to publicize his innocence. Sadie returns to Perfect Pizza, where she, Jack, and Joe discover the ghost of sanatorium janitor Carl in the basement, who reveals the building was built on a portal to hell, which the coven plans to use to enslave an army of ghosts. Killed by Vera, Tracy holds a press conference, but Vera reveals he has become a ghost and the coven reveal themselves as witches.  The town's frustrated ghosts turn to terrorizing the living, while a vengeful Astrid kills most of the coven. Dax is unwilling to help Astrid stop Vera, but Bradley later changes his mind. The witches prepare to access the portal, and Debbie enters Perfect Pizza only to find Jack waiting. He blows up the restaurant, believing this will stop the coven, but the explosion opens the portal instead. With Sadie watching helplessly, Astrid attacks the witches but is overpowered, and Dax intervenes in werewolf form. Marsh shoots Vera dead, while Bradley arrests Heather, and the portal closes.  Sadie is promoted to television news anchor, while Jack, now a ghost, reopens a new pizza restaurant with Dax and fellow ghosts Scooter, Joe, Carl, and Astrid.