Frank Fisher, a former musician who lost his wife in a biking accident, owns a failing vinyl shop called Red Hook Records in Brooklyn, New York. His daughter Sam is slated to leave for the West Coast to study pre-med at the end of the summer. Despite Sam's desire to study and spend time with her girlfriend Rose, Frank incessantly urges her to play music with him. Sam reveals she wrote a song titled “Hearts Beat Loud” during a jam session. They spend the night recording and mixing the entire song. Frank uploads the song to Spotify without Sam's permission and it becomes a viral success.  Frank tries to convince Sam to start a music duo, but the latter is reluctant, still determined to become a doctor. Regardless, Frank adopts an off-beat band name “We’re Not A Band” from Sam's refusals. Sam secretly writes another song about her relationship with Rose called "Blink (One Million Miles)," while Frank writes "Everything Must Go" about his closing business. In the meantime, Frank's landlady and loyal customer, Leslie offer a proposition to save Red Hook by remodeling it with a café to potentially lure more customers, to which Frank is stubbornly hesitant.  A talent agent approaches Frank and offers We’re Not A Band a record deal. Frank is ecstatic at the opportunity, but Sam turns it down. When Frank brings up her deceased mother's possible approving view of the opportunity, Sam angrily storms out. Despondent, Frank bitterly rejects Leslie's offer to save Red Hook. Frank initiates a massive sale on the shop's final day of business and apologizes to Leslie through a voicemail. He is visited by Sam, who with a change of heart convinces Frank to play live music with her as the customers browse the shop. The duo plays “Hearts Beat Loud,” "Blink (One Million Miles)", and "Everything Must Go," pleasing the onlooking, ever-growing customers, including Leslie and Rose. At summer's end, Red Hook closes and Frank accepts a job at a bar owned by his best friend, Dave.  In Frank's final scene, Leslie comes into the bar, and she and Frank talk animatedly over drinks as the camera fades out of the scene. Sam moves to the West Coast to begin her studies and sings “Hearts Beat Loud” solo during an open mic event.