During the Battle of Mosul, 3 Mosuli policemen arrest ISIS drug smugglers. However, they are soon overrun by ISIS and run out of ammo while defending themselves inside a cafe building. One of the police officers, Kawa, a 21 year old Kurd recently enlisted as a police officer, loses his uncle during the gunfight. The Nineveh SWAT Team, while going on a mission of their own, find the stranded police officers and save them from the ISIS group, as well as execute the drug smugglers. The Nineveh SWAT Team, a police division made up of men native to Mosul who lost family members to ISIS and led by Commander Major Jasem, offers Kawa to join them since he lost his uncle to ISIS and is thus eligible to become part of their team. He accepts, while his partner, the other police officer named Jameel, offers to take Kawa's uncle's body for burial.  The SWAT team continue their mission. Kawa repeatedly asks about their mission objective but is always ignored. While resting inside an abandoned building, Kawa and Jasem notice Kawa's previous partner, Jameel, returning and signalling to an ISIS car bomber the location of the SWAT team. Tomahawk, one of the SWAT team members, dies during the bomb blast. Commander Jasem gives Tomahawk's axe to Kawa. As they take the body of their fallen SWAT member for burial, Kawa grows repeatedly frustrated as no one answers his questions and no one trusts him while Hooka accuses him of being a traitor's partner.  While crossing into the ISIS-held part of Mosul, the SWAT team and the surrounding civilians come under fire from ISIS gunmen shooting from a rooftop and Hooka is killed. As the SWAT team clear the rooftop and plan their next course of action, an explosive-laden drone targets one of the SWAT men's Humvees. A second explosive-laden drone is shot down by an Iranian Special Forces Operative Colonel, Isfahani, who is commanding the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) in Mosul. He offers SWAT AK-47 ammo to the team in exchange for cigarette cartons. As the SWAT men meet with the PMF and Jasem barters with Isfahani, Jasem realizes that one of the PMF's prisoners is Kawa's partner Jameel. Jameel explains that he was captured by the ISIS group and threatened with the assassination of his grandson in Michigan unless he informs them of the SWAT team's location. Tensions between SWAT and the PMF rise rapidly when Jasem and Ishfahani argue on what to do with Jameel, but Kawa uses the axe he was given and kills Jameel, de-escalating the situation. Waleed then exchanges Hooka's hookah for an RPG with a single rocket, intending to attack an ISIS camp they've seen earlier from the rooftop.  As they leave, Commander Jasem explains to Kawa that his SWAT team have gone against his police superiors' orders to not undertake this mission; he begins to answer Kawa's repeated questions about the mission. However, Kawa stops him and informs him he doesn't want to know anymore and that he'll just follow Jasem's commands. The SWAT team continue their mission and reach a road block, which forces them to fight outside their Humvees. Youness is accidentally killed by friendly fire, while Kawa gets injured by a friendly fire grenade and gets facially disfigured and is covered with a balaclava. As the team proceed by foot and enter a building, Razak is killed in close quarter combat and Sinan sustains a stab wound.  The SWAT team proceed to attack the ISIS camp and another swat member dies after being shot. As they're securing the ISIS camp, Jasem, who has a habit of cleaning trash from any area he is in despite its destruction, accidentally triggers an ISIS booby trap and is killed. With the death of their commander, the SWAT team suffer great morale loss. However, Kawa succeeds in reminding them of their mission. Waleed leads the remainder of the SWAT group, now down to 6 members, into an apartment complex where he uses a spare key he had hidden in his shoe to open an apartment door. He kills an ISIS member who has taken Waleed's wife Hayat along with her daughter Dunya for forced marriage.  Kawa finally understands the objective of the SWAT mission, learning that the group had been carrying missions to liberate members of their families captured by ISIS. As he learns that Amir's son is close to their location, he asks how far.