In 1919, an American boy has temporarily retreated to the French countryside with his father, an American diplomat who is there to help negotiate the Treaty of Versailles, and his mother, who is German born. After rehearsing for a church pageant the boy throws rocks at the other children and their parents and then runs into the woods. When he returns he sees his father who has been drinking with family friend Charles Marker. The boy is forced to apologize to the townspeople and though he is unrepentant he is forgiven.  Though his mother is fluent in French the boy has been forbidden from speaking anything but English with his mother. As they are living in France however, the mother is permitted to hire a tutor, Ada, to teach the boy French. The boy later sees Ada alone with his father, which his father claims was because he was paying her. Afterwards, during one of their lessons the boy grabs Ada's breast. Though she is upset by the encounter Ada does not mention it to his mother.  The father, along with several trusted aides, spends some time in secret meetings at the house, no longer having faith in the negotiations. One of the aides, seeing the boy, mistakes him for a girl, which causes him to strip off his clothes and lock himself in his room for several days. His mother intends to starve him out but he is secretly fed by Mona, the housekeeper. When the mother discovers this she fires Mona. Mona vows to destroy the mother and her family.  The boy spends several days locked in his room learning French. Afterwards he recites a text in front of his mother and Ada and then asks his mother to dismiss Ada so he can continue his studies alone. The father returns to find the mother with Charles Marker. Upon seeing that his son is still disrobed he promises to lash him which results in a physical altercation in which he injures the boy's arm.  In celebration of the signed treaty, the family throws a dinner party for some close intimates. During the dinner the father asks the mother to lead the group in prayer; she in turn asks the boy to do so. Instead he announces that he doesn't believe in prayer anymore. When the mother tries to take him  to his room he strikes her several times in the temple with a rock. When the father attempts to apprehend him, the boy runs off revealing that he was faking his arm injury. In the process of running he trips and injures himself. He is approached by Charles Marker reassuring him that he is alright.  Several decades later the boy, Prescott, is now an adult and the military leader of a fascist state. Crowds of adoring fans greet him. He has grown to look like his biological father, Charles Marker.