In 2015, actress Elizabeth Berry arrives in Savannah, Georgia, to research her upcoming role in an indie film. Elizabeth will be playing Gracie Atherton-Yoo, who, in 1992 at the age of 36, was caught having sex with 13-year-old Joe Yoo, a schoolmate of her son Georgie, at the pet store where they both worked. During a prison sentence, Gracie gave birth to Joe's child. 23 years later, Gracie and Joe are married with three children: Honor, who is at college, and twins Charlie and Mary, who are about to graduate from high school.  Elizabeth interviews Gracie and Joe about their relationship and assures them that she intends to portray their story honestly. Visiting the pet store where the couple met and worked, Elizabeth sees the stock room where Gracie and Joe were caught having sex and reenacts the scene alone. She also speaks with Tom, Gracie's first husband, her son Georgie, who is now a musician, and her defense lawyer. They portray Gracie in varying ways, depicting her as naïve and passive, while also showing how destructive her actions were. Elizabeth attends more family events leading up to the twins' high school graduation.  Joe engages in a private text conversation with a friend from a Facebook group dedicated to his hobby of rearing monarch butterflies. At one point, Joe proposes they take a vacation together, but she rebuffs him by reminding him that he is married. When visiting his father, Joe ponders what life will be like with Gracie once all their children have left for college.  Elizabeth participates in a Q&A at a drama class at the twins' high school and discusses the intimacy actors and crew members feel when shooting a sex scene. When Elizabeth says she enjoys playing morally ambiguous characters, Mary is visibly offended. Charlie shares a cannabis joint with Joe, who reveals to his son he has never tried cannabis before. High, Joe has a breakdown and weeps in Charlie's arms.  Honor returns home from college and the family, accompanied by Elizabeth, go out to dinner to celebrate the twins' graduation. At the restaurant, they have an awkward encounter with Tom, Georgie, and the rest of Gracie's old family. Georgie speaks to Elizabeth in private and proposes that she get him a job as a music supervisor on the film in exchange for details about Gracie's life; he claims that he read Gracie's diary and discovered there that her older brothers had sexually abused her. Georgie also threatens that if not given the job, he will disparage the film to the press when it is released. Elizabeth unconvincingly says she will "look into it" and then gets a ride home from Joe.  Elizabeth invites Joe to her accommodation, where he gives her a letter Gracie wrote him early in their relationship. The two have sex, and Elizabeth tells Joe that he still has time to start a new life. However, Joe leaves once Elizabeth refers to his experiences as a "story," saying that story is "his life." Joe tearfully confronts Gracie about the start of their relationship, wondering whether he was "too young." Gracie insists he seduced her, and repeatedly asks who was in control. Elizabeth reads the letter Joe gave her as a monologue to practice her performance as Gracie.  The morning of graduation, one of Joe's butterflies emerges from its chrysalis. Later, the whole family watches Charlie and Mary graduate while Joe weeps alone at the edge of the crowd. As Elizabeth prepares to leave, Gracie tells her that Georgie fabricated the story of abuse by her brothers, and that she and Georgie spoke daily.  On the set of the film, Elizabeth films multiple takes of a scene depicting Gracie grooming Joe at the pet store. While the director is satisfied, she asks to film another take, insisting that the scene is "getting more real."