A black man, later identified as Andre Hayworth, walks through a suburban neighborhood at night. He is followed and abducted by another man in a white Porsche.  Chris Washington is a black photographer from Brooklyn, New York, preparing for a weekend visit to Upstate New York to meet the family of his white girlfriend, Rose Armitage. Hesitant, he asks Rose if her family knows about their interracial relationship, but she assures him that they are not racist. While there, Rose's brother Jeremy and their parents, neurosurgeon Dean and hypnotherapist Missy, make disconcerting comments about black people, and Chris witnesses strange behavior from the estate's black housekeeper, Georgina, and black groundskeeper, Walter.  The night of their arrival, Missy pressures Chris into a hypnotherapy session to cure his smoking addiction. While in a trance, he confesses that his mother was killed in a hit-and-run when he was a child and that he feels responsible for her death as he waited too long to call for help. He then enters a void Missy calls the "Sunken Place". The next morning, he assumes that the encounter was a dream until Walter apologizes for running frighteningly towards Chris the night before. However, he is pleased to discover that the hypnosis was a success, as he no longer feels a desire to smoke.  Dozens of wealthy white people arrive for the Armitages' annual get-together, expressing admiration for Chris's physique and black figures such as Tiger Woods. Jim Hudson, an art dealer who has gone blind in his old age, takes a particular interest in Chris's photography skills. Chris meets another black man, Logan King, who behaves strangely like Walter and Georgina and is married to a much older white woman. Chris phones his friend, TSA officer Rod Williams, and discusses the odd behavior of the people at the Armitage estate. He tries to photograph Logan inconspicuously, but when his flash goes off, Logan becomes hysterical, rushing at Chris and shouting at him to "get out." The others restrain him, and Dean later claims that Logan had an epileptic seizure.  Away from the party, Chris tells Rose that they should leave. Meanwhile, the party guests hold a silent auction, disguised as a game of bingo where Jim makes the winning bid, with Chris as the "prize". Later that night, Chris sends the photo of Logan to Rod, who recognizes Logan as Andre Hayworth, the missing man from Brooklyn. Suspecting a conspiracy, Rod tries to tell the police, but they laugh him out of the office. While Chris packs to leave, he finds photos of Rose in prior relationships with several black partners, including Walter and Georgina, contradicting her earlier claim that Chris is the first black person she has dated. He tries to leave the house, but Rose and her family lock him in. Chris attacks Jeremy, but Missy uses a hypnotic trigger to knock him out, sending him back to the Sunken Place.  Chris awakens strapped to a chair in the basement. In a video presentation, Rose's grandfather, Roman, explains that the family transplants white people's brains into others' bodies, granting them preferred physical characteristics and a twisted form of immortality. The host's consciousness remains in the Sunken Place, alive but powerless. The video then connects to a feed of Jim, speaking with Chris through an intercom. Jim says that although the Armitages target mainly black people, he does not care about Chris's race and only wants his eyesight. Missy activates the hypnotic trigger to knock Chris out again.  When Jeremy comes to fetch Chris for the surgery, it is revealed that Chris blocked the hypnotic trigger by plugging his ears with cotton stuffing pulled from the chair. Chris bludgeons Jeremy with a bocce ball and heads to the operating room, where Dean is preparing Jim for the surgery. Chris impales Dean with the antlers of a deer mount, knocking over a candle which sets fire to the operating room with an anesthetized Jim inside. Missy attacks Chris in the kitchen, but he stabs and kills her. Jeremy attacks him again as he heads for the door but Chris kills him too and attempts to escape in Jeremy's Porsche. On the way out, he hits Georgina, who is possessed by Rose's grandmother Marianne, and knocks her unconscious. Compelled by guilt from his mother's death, he decides to carry her into the car, but she awakens and attacks him. In the ensuing struggle, the car crashes into a tree and Georgina is killed.  Rose and Walter, who is possessed by Roman, arrive and hold Chris at gunpoint. Chris uses the flash on his phone to incapacitate Roman. Walter temporarily regains control of his body, taking Rose's rifle and shooting both her and himself. Chris begins to strangle the wounded Rose, but he finds himself unable to kill her. Police sirens approach, and Rose cries out for help. Chris decides to surrender, but the driver is revealed to be Rod. He drives away with Chris, leaving Rose to bleed out on the road.