In the castle of Elsinore, Denmark, willful and free-spirited Ophelia is Queen Gertrude's  favourite lady-in-waiting, and ridiculed by the others for her lack of nobility. Her father, Polonius, is chief councillor to King Hamlet.  Upon his return from Wittenberg, Prince Hamlet soon begins courting Ophelia, but their romance is cut short when he returns to his studies. At the same time, Hamlet's uncle Claudius seduces Gertrude.  Later, Gertrude sends Ophelia for her tonic from the healer Mechtild deep in the forest. That night, Ophelia witnesses the king and queen in a heated argument. She pursues the distraught Gertrude up to the castle parapets where she sees an apparent ghost.  The next day the king is dead, presumably from a venomous snake bite. Claudius takes the throne as his successor and marries Gertrude. Hamlet returns to Elsinore enraged, suspecting foul play. He resumes his romance with Ophelia, which the court notices. Ophelia's brother Laertes cautions her to be careful, before leaving for France. Ophelia meets Hamlet at the parapets where he confides in her his suspicions about his mother's infidelity.  Ophelia later learns Mechtild is not only Gertrude's twin sister but also Claudius' former lover. He ruined her by accusing her of witchcraft when she miscarried their son. She escaped persecution by faking her own death with a special poison. Later on, Hamlet meets Ophelia in the chapel and they secretly marry.  Early the next morning, Ophelia discovers Claudius is the spectral figure, then finds Mechtild's poison in his cloak, and realises he poisoned King Hamlet. Upon discovering their secret marriage, Claudius tries to use her to spy on Hamlet. Ophelia warns him of the murder and he insists she hide in a convent to be safe from Claudius. Polonius deduces that Hamlet is mad, but unconvinced Claudius instructs him to marry off Ophelia.   That night, Hamlet has an acting troupe depict his father's murder. Claudius bursts into a rage, confirming Hamlet's suspicions. Gertrude blames Ophelia, dismissing her. Polonius pleads Ophelia's case with Gertrude, but he is killed by Hamlet who mistakes him for Claudius. Horatio devastates Ophelia further, telling her that Hamlet has been banished to England with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  Laertes returns from France demanding justice for his father. During her wedding preparations, Ophelia learns that Claudius ordered Hamlet's murder. But Horatio lifts her hopes when he tells her he is still alive.   Attempting to escape the castle, Ophelia is cornered by Claudius so she confronts him for mistreating Mechtild. He locks her up, but she escapes and feigns madness. During her act, Ophelia tells Horatio to take her body from the grave. Claudius orders her arrest but Gertrude shows her mercy, believing her show of insanity. The guards pursue her to the lake where she drinks Mechtild's poison and seemingly drowns.  Horatio understood her request and digs her up as she wakes, but the poison has weakened her. Travelling through the forest, they find Norwegian soldiers heading to Elsinore. Horatio leaves to warn the court while Ophelia seeks out Mechtild for an antidote.  When confronted about the king's murder, Mechtild explains that while she had no part in it she admits she couldn't deny Claudius as she still harboured feelings for him, but agrees that he should pay for his crimes. While Ophelia rests, Mechtild goes to help the invading Norwegians.   Ophelia awakes to a stunned and remorseful Gertrude, who announces that Laertes has challenged Hamlet to a duel. Ophelia forgives her, and sneaks back into the castle unrecognised with Gertrude's help. Claudius meanwhile has anointed Laertes’ sword with poison.  Hamlet is overjoyed to see his beloved alive and well. Ophelia pleads with him to leave with her but he is still consumed by vengeance, but promises to follow her to the convent. Ophelia sadly bids him goodbye and leaves Elsinore for good. Both Hamlet and Laertes are killed, wounded by the poisoned sword. Enraged and grief-stricken, Gertrude grabs Hamlet's sword and kills Claudius, just as the Norwegians storm the castle, accompanied by Mechtild. She poisons herself with Claudius' venom and dies in her sister's arms.  The film closes with Ophelia living peacefully in exile with her daughter, fathered by Hamlet.