At the Maul, the ghouls and the turtles await the new Twiheart movie. They learn about the feud between vampires and werewolves after hearing them whisper amongst themselves after seeing Draculaura and Clawd holding hands together. However, they were actually just pointing out the toilet paper stuck to Draculaura's boot.  At school, the ghouls get caught in the excitement of an announcement. Headmistress Bloodgood said that she was merging Monster High with two other schools: Belfry Prep, an all-vampire school, and Crescent Moon High, which is exclusively for werewolves. She hopes to unite all monsters and then eventually even the human community. While this unnerved Draculaura and Clawdeen, Frankie saw this as a good thing, especially after the Fear Squad was placed as welcoming committee. Helped by Abbey, the ghouls made a killer set-up, only to have it ruined after the two schools arrive. Bram Devein and Gory Fangtell, two vampires, and Dougey, a werewolf, are introduced after the three pass snarky comments to one another. Romulus, Clawd's childhood friend, tells the werewolves to not cause trouble on their first day at their new school.  The first day is a disaster. The vampires and werewolves claim species-only territory within the school. Cleo clashes with Gory, who attempts to take over the fear squad and make it vampires only, and Romulus is upset after finding out that Clawd has fallen in love with a vampire.  Frankie has the idea for a dance to bring the two together. With the help of her friends, she perfects it by turning Jackson Jekyll into Holt Hyde. But Administrator Van Hellscream, the Normie head of Monster and Normie relations, shows up and ruins everything. He and Crabgrass, his monster assistant, take over Monster High and secretly fuel the flames between vampires and werewolves, under the pretense of maintaining peace. Clawdeen and Clawd's insecure younger sister, Howleen, gets caught up in the fight. The two start support groups, Vampowerment and Were Pride. A disapproving Romulus begins to discreetly drive Draculaura and Clawd apart, and the two split after Draculaura questions why Clawd is always listening to Romulus, worried that he was becoming intolerant.  Frankie, realizing that something funny is going on, begins to uncover a dark secret. Crabgrass has turned Bloodgood to stone using Gorgon Dust and had taken her shape. Her statue was now on display in the courtyard. Despite trying to warn the others, only Abbie and Lagoona believe her. She learns from Deuce she can return someone who has been turned to stone back to normal with the powder and recovers it with Spectra and Lagoona's help. When she and Abbey plan to change Bloodgood back to normal, Howleen and Draculaura show up after getting suspicious text messages. Bloodgood is rescued, but Van Hellscream traps them and places them above a pit in the Catacombs, where they are left to die. Van Hellscream believes monsters are dangerous and must be separated from Normies. He has devoted his life to stopping the schools from being united. Realizing that Draculaura and Howleen are missing, vampires and werewolves blame each other and decide to end the feud with an all-out fight in the gym at midnight. Van Hellscream hopes that this fight will make the Skullastic Superintendents see that monsters are meant to be separated. Clawd and Clawdeen realize that Frankie and Abby are also missing, and Clawdeen realizes that Frankie was right after they find Bloodgood's statue is missing. Meanwhile, Abbey gets the girls out of their cage, and with help from Operetta, Clawdeen, and Clawd, they escape out of the Catacombs. Howleen realizes that she was wrong about vampires being bad after Draculaura jumps in front of her to protect her from a Gargoyle attack.  Realizing she is treating Ghoulia the same way the vampires are the zombies, Cleo apologizes. Before the gym fight starts, Howleen and Draculaura rush in, revealing that neither group kidnapped them, and Frankie delivers a speech that unites them, bringing peace. As the attendants come through the doors they see how great everyone is getting along. Van Hellscream and Crabgrass try to escape but are stopped when Cleo brings Deuce up and he petrifies them. Romulus reconciles with Clawd and becomes friendly with Draculaura, Clawdeen starts to respect Howleen, who apologizes for stealing her clothes, Cleo and Gory become friends, and Gory starts to treat the zombies more like friends than slaves.