As a child, Dorothy Goodwin loses the class presidency year after year to jokester Brent Hart, the son of a Senator.  As an adult, Dorothy is a liberal environmentalist. She is arrested and bailed out of jail after unintentionally burning the U.S. flag. As a result, she loses her job as a speechwriter on a U.S. Senate campaign. Dorothy returns to her conservative Texas hometown of Alabaster to live with her grandfather, Frank. After learning Brent is running for the state legislature against Democrat Sally Jensen, who has already lost three times before, Dorothy creates an elaborate scheme to make him lose. Based on real American law, she plans to go undercover as his opponent on the Republican ticket, win the primary nomination, and drop out before the midterms to force a victory for Sally.  While talking with her best friend Glenn over the phone, Dorothy accidentally disarms a thief robbing a convenience station. She is called a hero on the news. Her high school friend Greta, who opposes Brent because he plans to tear down the community center where she works and build a Ford dealership, serves as Dorothy's campaign manager and arranges a press tour using her connections in Alabaster. To win, Dorothy has to dodge questions, but promises herself she will never "lie," about Republican policies she dislikes, such as the right to bear arms. The town matriarch, Genie, sponsors her campaign. Glenn visits Dorothy from Washington and gives her a make-over.  Dorothy grows closer to her grandfather, who starts to promote her campaign. Dorothy is criticized on the news when she takes a pregnant Greta to a Planned Parenthood health clinic. Greta publicly declares she is pro-choice, which damages the campaign. Privately, Brent tells Dorothy that he once drove his college girlfriend to have an abortion. He also apologizes for his actions as a child. Dorothy encourages him to do the right thing now, moving forward, assuming he has bested her and will win the ticket.  The next day, Brent - moved by Dorothy's vulnerability, and integrity, and convinced she really would make a better State Senator than he - announces the withdrawal of his candidacy. At the Alabaster Community Center, Sally tells Dorothy that she leaked the news of Greta's abortion because she is, in fact, anti-abortion. Sally details her plan to release the video of Dorothy's arrest after she accepts the Republican nomination. Shocked, Dorothy takes Greta outside and tells her the truth about her run for office. Greta is initially critical but understanding. Dorothy decides to help Greta run against her as an independent. In September 2020, two months before the election, Greta is ahead in the polls.