In Victorian London, medical student Max McCandles becomes an assistant to disfigured surgeon Godwin Baxter and his maid Mrs. Prim. He meets and falls in love with Godwin's ward, a childlike young woman named Bella. Godwin reveals that the woman, who was pregnant, died by suicide by leaping off a bridge. He resurrected Bella by replacing her brain with that of the still-living baby, resulting in her having an infant's mind. Max is intrigued by Bella's child-like demeanor, and, with Godwin's permission, asks for her hand in marriage. Bella accepts, but as her intelligence rapidly develops, she begins to crave freedom and autonomy from Max and runs off with lawyer Duncan Wedderburn. Deciding to let Bella go, Godwin starts a new experiment with a young woman named Felicity, who is maturing much more slowly than Bella.  Bella and Duncan embark on a grand journey, starting in Lisbon, where the two engage in frequent sex, in addition to other forms of hedonism. Bella becomes difficult for Duncan to control, so he smuggles her onto a cruise ship for a "change of scenery". On the ship, she befriends fellow passengers Martha and Harry, who open her mind to philosophy. Initially attracted to Bella's "adorable way of speaking" and her child-like naivete, Duncan frequently attempts to stunt Bella's intellectual growth, throwing her books into the ocean and forbidding Bella from pursuing further educational pursuits. Finding Bella increasingly difficult to control, Duncan begins to indulge in drinking and gambling. During a stop at Alexandria, Bella is distraught after witnessing the miserable poverty of the locals and donates Duncan's winnings, which are in turn stolen by the crew. Unable to afford the rest of the trip, the two are kicked off the ship at Marseille, after which they make their way to Paris. Having run out of funds, Bella begins working at a brothel, further enraging Duncan and resulting in his mental breakdown, finally leading her to abandon him. At the brothel, she comes under the tutelage of Madame Swiney and befriends fellow prostitute Toinette, who introduces her to socialism.  A terminally ill Godwin asks Max to bring Bella to him. Max locates Bella after tracking down Duncan, who has been institutionalized after his breakdown. Returning to London, Bella reconciles with Godwin and renews her plans to marry Max. The two are interrupted by Duncan and General Alfie Blessington on their wedding day. Alfie, addressing Bella as Victoria, reveals that they were married before her disappearance and that he has come to reclaim Bella. She abandons Max to learn of her past life but quickly discovers Alfie's violent and sadistic nature; and comes to the realization that she had committed suicide to escape their abusive relationship. Alfie confines Bella to his mansion and threatens her at gunpoint to submit to genital mutilation, demanding she drink a chloroform-laced cocktail to sedate her for the procedure. Bella tosses the cocktail in his face, causing Alfie to shoot himself in the foot before passing out.  Godwin dies peacefully with Bella and Max at his side. Bella decides to carry on Godwin's work with the help of Max and Toinette; Alfie has his brain swapped for that of a goat, while Felicity's intelligence steadily progresses.