Maya is a former book publisher and a perfect mother whose life revolves around her three children, Aaliya, Ankush, and Anjali. Despite being divorced from Aman, Maya has ensured that they remain a happy family unit. However, things take an unexpected turn when Aman's girlfriend, Shreya Arora, a career-oriented fashion designer with a lot to learn about children, joins the family.   When Aman introduces Shreya at Anjali's birthday party, she accidentally drops Anjali's birthday cake, which leads the children to perceive her as evil. One day, Aman asks Shreya to look after them as he is busy with a meeting. Anjali goes missing when Shreya goes to get ice cream for the kids. At the police station, Anjali is found and Shreya cannot go near the children without Maya's permission after Maya threatens to file a lawsuit.   Maya finds out that she has cervical cancer and tells Aman, which prompts him to move back in with the family and leave Shreya. However, he is unable to forget her, which Maya notices. Maya tells their children that she has cancer and Aaliya retaliates by going to a party with an older boy. Maya tells Shreya that she has cancer, and that she wants her to take care of the kids after she's gone, as they'll need a mother. Shreya refuses, not believing herself to be the ‘mom type,’ but agrees to move in and leave her career. The children gradually develop an attachment towards Shreya. When Maya and Shreya have an argument, it is revealed that Shreya is an orphan, thus she was never taught anything about being a mother. Aman tells Maya that they should not be competing with each other for the children's love. Maya faints and the doctor tells her that she has only a few days left. Shreya decides to take care of the children while Aman tends to Maya.  When Shreya and the children visit Maya at the hospital, the two women have a private conversation. Maya bequeaths guardianship of the children to Shreya and confesses a mistake she made that almost killed Anjali years ago due to recklessness. She explains that not every mother is perfect but they need to keep trying. Maya wants to return home for Diwali as the last chance to see her house before she dies. During the festival, the children hold a special event for her, replaying the memories they had together. When they take a family photograph, Maya asks Shreya to join, as she is now family. Soon after, Maya dies. Aman has married Shreya, and she became the children's stepmother.   Ten years later, it is Aaliya's wedding. Shreya gifts her a bracelet that belonged to Maya. During the marriage, Shreya recalls Maya saying she had the children's yesterday while Shreya has their tomorrow, and smiles.