Moe and Bobby "Skunk" Santos are money launderers for Perico, who is also Bobby's uncle. They are both given a large job which involves $20 million in 10 days.  As they are both about to launder the money they get a call from Perico to not do anything and just sit on the money until he rings them again. This gives Bobby an opportunity to make a fast buck by doing a drug deal and making some extra money. He involves Moe who reluctantly agrees after refusing flat out first.  They go to see an Indian shopkeeper Fedex who is told he will make $60,000 in a few hours if he gives them the phone number of the drug dealer. Hesitantly he gives them the phone number of Debo, a local drug dealer and contact him to set up a once only deal.  But Debo is in cahoots with some dirty cops who have "borrowed" the drugs from the evidence room so that they can steal the money, and the drugs, once the deal is done. Debo is given 1 kg of drugs, for his help and told to run with his gang by the cops whilst they ambush Moe and Bobby at the drug deal.  Unbeknownst to the cops, Moe has set up a shooter who helps them take the money and drugs back off the cops and escape with the cops in hot pursuit. Whilst getting away Moe crashes his car and loses his memory whilst Bobby has a few scratches.  They manage to hide out with the dirty cops in hot pursuit who want their drugs and the money and will do anything to get them.  Problem is Moe has no memory and has to keep himself safe with the cash and drugs. Who will win? It is a game of cat and mouse...  Skunk and Moe go to see Skunk's uncle on his mother's side, a crime boss in the middle of a real estate deal with a congressman and being vetted by the biggest bank in New York. Skunk's uncle tells them that because they messed things up they must leave New York forever. Before they do, Moe insists he must see his apartment. At the apartment they find his pregnant girlfriend and Skunk leaves and tells them to be ready when he returns. When Skunk returns, so do the dirty cops. They capture Skunk and shoot Moe's girlfriend who later dies at a hospital. Moe goes to see Skunk's uncle, who agrees to help.  Moe is able to rescue Skunk and they take the cash and drugs to Skunk's uncle. His uncle assaults Moe after being tipped off by an FBI agent that Moe is an undercover cop called Killerman. Skunk's uncle informs him that Moe's girlfriend did not die but his unborn child did and then tells him to kill Moe by emptying a clip in his head. Instead of killing Moe, Skunk kills his uncle and his uncle's men. Skunk tells Moe that his uncle would have killed them both and not mentioning that Moe is a cop and his girlfriend is alive. They take a car, the money and drugs and leave New York. In credits, it's said that no one knows their whereabouts and that it is unknown whether Moe ever got his memory back.