In the mid-18th century, the Leininger family immigrates from Germany to Penns Creek, Pennsylvania, building a farm there. When six Indian chiefs attempt to ally with Edward Braddock against the French, he mockingly dismisses them, leading the Indians to support the French instead.  One day in 1755, when Mrs. Leininger and John were away at the mill, the Indian brothers Galasko and Hannawoa assaulted the farm, burning it down and killing Mr. Leininger and Christian. They kidnap Barbara and Regina, placing them with a group of captured children, including their close friend Marie LeRoy. After a few days, the Indians march the captives away, dubbing Barbara "Susquehanna" and Regina "Tskinnak." They divide the hostages between warriors from two tribes at a crossroads, separating Regina from Barbara and Marie. In grief, Barbara attempts to escape by stealing a horse but is almost immediately recaptured. Though the Indians initially condemn her to burn alive, Galasko convinces Hannawoa and the others to spare her after she promises never to flee again. The Indians holding Barbara and Marie march their captives to the French Fort du Quesne.  In the massacre's aftermath, protests from the captives' families convince the Pennsylvania legislature to appropriate a defense bill. The raised militia assaults Fort du Quesne, causing the Indians to transfer most of the hostages deep into the forest, including Barbara and Marie. The Indians decide to execute a woman named Lydia Barrett for attempting to escape during the battle, during which she managed to hide her two sons for the militia to rescue. Not wanting her to die painfully by fire, a French officer shoots Barrett out of mercy after a scuffle with the Indians. After the conflict subsides, the Indians escort the captives to their village, dressing and painting them as Indians and assimilating them into their tribe.  Several years later, Barbara, now a teenager, learns Marie intends to escape with two other captives, Owen and David, but initially dismisses their plan as unworkable. However, when Galasko proposes marriage to her and gives her Mrs. Leininger's brooch, which he grabbed in the raid, Barbara remembers her past and agrees to Marie's plans. When the Indians schedule her wedding after a planned three-day hunt, Barbara, Marie, Owen, and David slip away at night. Hannwoa immediately discovers their absence and begins following them. The fugitives encounter a bear, which severely slashes David's leg after he shoots and attempts to charge it, scaring it away. Hannwoa angrily confronts Galasko over Barbara's betrayal, murdering him in his rage.  When the four fugitives make it to Fort Pitt, the British soldiers initially deny them help out of paranoia. Barbara desperately begs for help in German, making the soldiers realize they're telling the truth and agree to shelter them. Hannwoa appears, having caught up with the fugitives, and furiously engages the soldiers, killing several before Barbara kills him with a dead soldier's pistol. After spending a month at Fort Pitt, Barbara, Marie, Owen, and David travel to Philadelphia, reuniting with Mrs. Leininger and John. Barbara returns her mother's brooch to her, who informs her that Regina is still missing. Owen and David enlist in the Pennsylvania militia.  Several years later, Barbara married her friend Fritz Hecklinger and had two children with him. That year, Henry Muhlenberg informs the family on Christmas Eve that Colonel Armstrong has defeated the Indians in Ohio. As the British forced them to relinquish all war prisoners, he urged them to rush to Fort Carlisle. After arriving there, Owen informs them that David died in the Battle of Bushy Run. Barbara reassures him that Marie remains unmarried for him, and the lovers embrace. Unable to recognize Regina among the liberated children, Mrs. Leininger sings "Alone yet Not Alone" to them. The song rekindles Regina's memories and makes her run into her family's loving embrace.  Regina lived with her mother until they died, never married, and Stouchsburg erected a monument over their adjacent tombstones. Barbara eventually had a third child in Berks County and named her daughter after her sister. She died in 1805 in the Cumru Township.