Dani Barnes, an excellent high-school student, receives straight As and is focused on getting a scholarship to U.C. Davis. Highly passionate about dogs, she volunteers at the local dog clinic.  Considered an unfashionable nerd, Dani is not very popular at her school. Her only friend is her best friend Freddie Myers, who develops a secret crush on her, but Dani does not seem to register Freddie's feelings for her.  Dani only has eyes for Cameron Drake, on whom she has had a crush since childhood. Unlike Dani, Cameron is one of the most popular guys at her school, and unfortunately for her, also Alexa Medina's boyfriend. Alexa, Dani's “bully“ and former childhood best friend, portrays exactly the opposite of her: She is idolized by the entire school and also has numerous followers on various social-media platforms.  Alexa breaks up with her boyfriend Cameron to go out with another social media champion named Fousey. This results in Dani and Cameron getting closer. After getting dumped, Alexa suddenly shows great interest in befriending Dani again. She offers Dani a fresh start and apologizes for treating her badly.  Alexa integrates her into her friend group, thus draws her into a completely new Southern California scene, consisting of excessively high-cost shopping and partying. Dani begins to enjoy the popularity she gains, as well as the attention Alexa brings her, which eventually leads to Dani losing herself within this new, superficial lifestyle to which she has adjusted by looking hot and dress like Alexa.  Dani's improved social status causes her to lose sight of much more significant things, such as sincere, honest friendship. While she'd been hanging with Alexa, she let down Freddie by blowing off his first paid gig, the animal rescue by losing their venue and by not supporting Cameron at his meet, his big TV appearance and with keeping quiet over his UCLA acceptance in front of his dad.  Cameron breaks up with Dani then Alexa, as she cannot be trusted, posted a video calling her a stalker and a drunk using video 'evidence'. It goes viral on Instagram and memes are created to bully her. Her little sister shows her support by quiteing her following on Alexa.  Dani makes up with Freddie, then gets the fastfood restaurant Bob's Big Boy to host the animal rescue event.  It's a success so Fiona gives her the promised college recommendation. That evening is the senior class beach bonfire. Here everyone comes together, except Alexa who's mourning the loss of her YouTube channel, and Cameron and Dani kiss and make up.