Jane F is an unambitious young actress who enjoys smoking marijuana and lives in an LA apartment with her nerdy, somewhat disturbing roommate Steve. One day, she discovers a plate of cupcakes left by Steve for a science-fiction movie marathon, all of which she impulsively eats. She soon realizes that the cupcakes were laced with marijuana while remembering a list of things she needs to do that day, including paying the electric bill and going to an important audition.  Jane first decides to call her pot dealer Steve to buy more marijuana to bake more cupcakes using money left to her by her roommate to pay the electric bill, but she is short and still around $40 in debt to him. He threatens to take her furniture (including her prized mattress) and inform her roommate about her buying marijuana with his money if she does not pay him back by 3:00 at a hemp festival in Venice Beach.  As Jane begins making cannabis-infused butter for the cupcakes, she is distracted by a call from her agent Kyle reminding her about her audition in less than an hour. Her butter burns as she destroys her phone trying to turn off the smoke alarm. With no other options, she decides to sell her cache of government-strength marijuana to pay her dealer. Though late to her audition, she is still allowed to be seen by the casting director, though it goes poorly and Jane tries to sell her weed. Grossly offended, they contact the authorities, forcing her to flush her weed down the toilet in a panic.  Without her weed and broke, Jane begins cold-contacting various acquaintances for money, eventually reaching out to Brevin, a nerdy friend of her roommate's who is infatuated with her. Though unable to pay her immediately, Brevin promises to get her the cash she needs following an important dentist appointment.  Upon leaving, Brevin finds his car was broken into and his wallet, which was left on the dashboard, stolen. The police attempt to question Jane about it but, feeling paranoid, she flees. Seeking refuge at the home of one of her old college professors, a tutor on Marxist studies, she is invited in by his mother Shirley. Confusing her for his teaching assistant, she gives Jane a folder to take to his office.  Walking to an apartment complex across the street, she discovers the folder contains a first-edition copy of the Communist Manifesto. Failing to sell it to a resident, her behavior causes him to call the police. She flees into the back of a meat-truck, believing it will take her to Venice Beach. Later discovered by factory workers Mikey and Albert, they kindly give her a tour of the plant they work at.  After being kicked out by the foreman, Mikey agrees to drive her to Venice Beach after work. When a car accident causes a massive traffic jam, Jane leaves Mike's car and continues on foot. She is given a ride by a woman riding a motorcycle.  Jane is dismayed to arrive at the hemp festival just after it ended and is unable to find her dealer. Wandering the beach, she finds several ride tickets in the sand that allow her to board the Ferris wheel at the amusement park on Venice Beach Boardwalk.  While on the ride, she discovers Brevin, Shirley, her teacher, and the man from the apartment all looking for her below. Wanting to do the right thing and return the Communist Manifesto, she tries to get their attention, but her carriage shifts, causing her to let go of the book, which sends the pages flying. Jane is arrested and sentenced to 1500 hours of community service.