The film opens with Ethan Cooper, a clerk at a computer repair shop, retelling a story to his roommate, Sam, about his long-lasting infatuation with a girl, Emily Atkins, whom he knew in elementary school.  One day, while visiting his sister Lexy, a florist, Ethan gets an offer from Mrs. Taylor to get rid of her daughter Veronica's boyfriend in exchange for money. He succeeds but accidentally causes Veronica to become infatuated with him. Mrs. Taylor recommends Ethan to other disapproving parents, thus making him a match-breaker and making his "business" prosperous.  Sometime later, he gets a yet another offer from a dissatisfied parent. Ethan meets her at a jazz club, where she apparently sings at nights. It turns out that the daughter is actually Emily Atkins, the same girl whom Ethan was gushing about to his roommate, Sam. Ethan decides to meet up with her again, this time at an art gallery, where Emily works.  Meanwhile, a puerile rich young man named Mitchell becomes interested in a waitress named Tricia. Unfortunately, his parents do not approve of his new-found love interest and they hire Ethan to dismantle the couple. Ethan goes on a double date with the couple, bringing Lexy along to act as his girlfriend. They try to make Mitchell and Tricia dislike each other but are unsuccessful.  Sometime after, Emily invites Ethan to a restaurant where Ethan learns Emily's apparent displeasure with her boyfriend. Later, Ethan gets a surprise visit from Emily's mother, from whom he learns that Emily has broken up with her boyfriend on her own. Her mother offers Ethan a reward, but he declines.  Ethan and Emily decide to hang out. Emily learns that Ethan had and still has a crush on her. Also, Ethan learns that Emily is not as flawless as he made her out to be. Despite her flaws, Ethan kisses Emily, but Emily disapproves of the kiss.  Emily gets a call from a friend who is in need of help and asks Ethan to come. It turns out that Emily is close friends with Tricia. Ethan learns that Tricia and Mitchell broke up. Annoyed with Veronica's affection with him, Ethan decides to tell her that he has no interest in her.  Sometime later, at a formal party, Emily notices a check written by her mother for Ethan in her mother's handbag. Ethan rushes over to the party as Sam texts him to let him know that someone is trying to move in on Emily. When he arrives, Emily, who is infuriated, confronts Ethan about the check. Ethan notices that Veronica has followed him. Engulfed with emotional trauma, Veronica exposes Ethan to be a match-breaker in front of a crowd, as she has stalked him since they first met.  The next day, Emily's mother tells Emily that Ethan refused to take the check for the assumed dismantlement of the couple. Meanwhile, overwhelmed with guilt, Ethan gets Mitchell back together with Tricia, and offers Mitchell's father, a record producer, to visit the jazz club tonight, where Emily will be performing. Later, Tricia informs Emily that Ethan helped Mitchell to win Tricia over again.  Six months later, Tricia and Mitchell have gotten engaged, and Ethan has written a relationship book and started a romantic relationship with Emily.