Ben King and Alice Mori, close friends since college and now in their late twenties, attend a wedding where Alice, having recently broke up with her boyfriend Nate due to his infidelity, overindulges in alcohol and Ben helps take care of her. Ben is fixated on former classmate Jess Ramsey and hopes to establish a romantic relationship with her, but embarrasses himself when she rebuffs his attempt to kiss her because she is engaged. At the hotel, Ben and Alice both vent their frustrations of having to navigate wedding season alone, and decide to help one another by becoming each other's dates; with Alice also agreeing to help Ben meet women.  Alice uses blunt approaches to introduce Ben to various single women at the weddings, one of which culminates in Ben having a one-night-stand. However, Ben remains fixated on finding the "perfect" relationship versus casual flings. Ben goes golfing with his dad, Chuck, and learns he has asked his much younger girlfriend Gina to marry him and asks Ben to be his best man. Citing Chuck's two previous failed marriages, Ben informs his dad to take some time to think about his decision.  After another wedding, Ben and Alice are forced to share a hotel bed and Alice attempts to cuddle with Ben, making him uncomfortable. The pair attend a wedding for one of Ben's family members, and he and Alice nearly drunkenly kiss in the pool after a deep conversation. Alice learns that Ben has been asked to be his dad's best man, and expresses concern as to why he didn't tell her or hasn't accepted. Ben expresses his frustrations with his dad, explaining he still feels resentment from his parents' divorce. Alice tells him that her parents remained together for her and her sister, despite clear displeasure for each other. They miss the shuttle bus back to the hotel and are forced to walk, eventually cutting through a cemetery which Alice attempts to run through and she trips. As Ben helps her with the cut on her arm, they embrace and have sex. The pair awkwardly have breakfast the following day, and decide not to discuss the previous night. A number of weeks later, Ben and Alice travel to Hawaii for a destination wedding and once again embrace their mutual attraction for one another. The pair become romantically involved, and Ben also gains the approval of Alice's parents after helping to make her sister's wedding a success.   As Ben and Alice prepare to attend another wedding, they get into an argument over Alice forgetting the wedding gift and her nonchalant attitude frustrates Ben. At the wedding, Ben tells her he doesn't see their relationship going any further and they break up. Ben attends the remainder of weddings alone, and makes a drunken fool of himself prompting his friend Matt to intervene. After some discussion, Ben realizes his mistake and shows up to a wedding Alice previously invited him to, finding that she is back with Nate. He attempts to explain himself to Alice and professes his love, but she rebukes him.  Later that night, Chuck calls Ben for a ride after taking acid during his bachelor party, and the pair reconcile with Ben finally agreeing to be his dad's best man. Ben returns home and finds Alice waiting for him. The couple profess their love and reconvene their relationship. At Chuck's wedding, Ben gives a heartfelt speech to his dad and his new stepmother Gina, while Alice joyously listens on in approval.