In Seattle, Washington, high school senior Light Turner stumbles across the Death Note, a mysterious leather-bound notebook with instructions that state that by writing a person's name down within it, that person will die in the manner prescribed. Light meets Ryuk, a death god and the notebook's owner. Ryuk convinces Light to use the notebook; Light writes down a bully's name and shortly thereafter witnesses him being killed in a freak accident. That night, Light tries it again, using the name of his mother's killer, Anthony Skomal, and learns the next morning from his father James, a police detective, that Skomal died as Light had written. At school, Light shows Mia the book and demonstrates its power by killing a known criminal felon during a televised hostage situation. The two decide to work together to rid the world of criminals and terrorists, with Light deciding on using the name Kira (derived from the Japanese trans-literation for "Killer", so as to direct investigative attention away from their continent).  Kira's actions draw the attention of enigmatic international detective L, who deduces Kira is a Seattle-based student with close ties to the police and indirectly concludes Kira can only kill by knowing the name and face of their victim. Working with James and the police, L has several FBI agents track Light and other suspects. Light refuses to kill them when Mia suggests it, but soon the agents commit mass suicide, which Light believes Ryuk made them do. James threatens Kira over public broadcast but when he fails to be killed, L confronts Light about being Kira and prepares the police to thoroughly search Light's home. Light decides to use the Death Note to force L's personal assistant Watari to travel to Montauk, New York, and find L's adoption record there; Light plans to burn the notebook page with Watari's name once he knows L's name to stop Watari's death, then kill L. Mia helps to sneak the notebook out before the search.  Light and Mia go to the school dance, using the event to ditch L and the police. Light recovers the notebook just as Watari contacts him with L's name from the orphanage he was raised in, but Light cannot find the page in the notebook where Watari's name is written. Watari is then killed by security for trespassing before he can reveal L's name. Light discovers Mia took Watari's page, caused the agents' suicide, and has written Light's name in the book, set to kill him at midnight, but she offers to burn his page if he turns the notebook over to her. Light flees, telling Mia to meet him at the Seattle Great Wheel. Enraged at Watari's death, L leaves on a personal manhunt against Light, while James orders L to be detained. L corners Light, but a Kira Supporter, hearing that Light is Kira, knocks L out, letting Light escape. Mia meets Light at the wheel and they ride to the top. There, Mia steals the notebook, but realizes too late this was Light's plan: Light has written her death in the notebook contingent on her taking it. Ryuk then makes the wheel collapse, sending Mia falling to her death, while Light and the notebook fall into the nearby waters. L witnesses the page with Light's name land in a burning barrel.  Before meeting Mia, Light had used the book to coerce a criminally-charged doctor to rescue him and put him into a medically-induced coma, while having another criminal recover the Death Note and continue Kira's killings before returning the book to his bedside, killing both after their role is complete. Meanwhile, L is ordered off the case for his apparent misconduct, but in defiance, he raids Mia's home, finds the notebook page with the agents' names and deduces its capabilities. In a hysterical fit, he considers writing a name (implied to be Light's). When Light wakes from his coma at a hospital with James, who has come to conclude Light is Kira, by his side, he tries to convince James that his actions were "the lesser of two evils", prompting Ryuk to laugh and comment that “humans are so interesting.”