A family home is raided by an armed gang of thieves in the middle of the night.  Brothers Jake and Duncan are saved by Lester.  They are devastated to find their parents shot dead and watch helplessly as their house burns to the ground.  Years later, the Dalton gang meets up with Jake, who is working in a saloon.  After losing one of their members in a gun fight, the gang realizes they will not have enough manpower for their upcoming train heist.  At the objection of his older brother Duncan, Jake volunteers and the gang is forced to use him as a substitute.  The gang successfully pulls off the train heist, but instead of gold, the chest they steal reveals a young woman inside named Pearl.  She claims she was taken from her home in Potemkin.  She also claims there would be a handsome reward for the gang if they return her home.  Duncan is wounded by a Pinkerton's bullet.  The gang travel to Potemkin with Pearl and arrive at the town brothel in order to get help for Duncan, who is slowly dying.  The gang is welcomed by Maria, the leader of the brothel.  They drink and partake in the pleasures of the town-women.  Maria sits Jake down and shows him her past, where she was burned at the stake as a witch while pregnant with Pearl.  The women transform into their true selves, hideous burnt witches and attack the gang, some of which are killed off.  The remaining survivors fall back to a cabin to strategize an escape.  Maria gathers her fellow witches and reveals that Jake is the one who can sustain them for many more years, as he's "innocent blood", having never taken a life and is a virgin. Jake and Dodd go back to the brothel to find Duncan, but he's not there.  They rendezvous with the rest of the group and fight their way to a church.  In a hallucinatory state, Wylie eats some broken glass.  Lester reveals to Jake that the reason his family was killed was because they were thieves, and they stole the farm they lived on.  Later, Jake goes outside and finds Duncan apparently healed.  But Dodd shoots him and he morphs into a flock of crows.  Lester starts convulsing and vomiting a black liquid, and a black crow crawls out of his mouth, killing him.  Wylie is found having cut himself all over with broken glass and is cutting out his eyes.  He then slashes his own throat and dies.  Dodd and Jake leave the church to escape but are ambushed and fall back to the town.  Dodd takes on the witches and is killed while Jake moves forward.  He comes upon Maria and Pearl, who offer Duncan's life in exchange for Jake.  He takes the deal and Duncan rides off, eventually buying back his family's old farm and having a child of his own, named Jacob. A black crow sits ominously on their balcony as the sun sets.