In the aftermath of a major global conflict, which caused untold amounts of death and destruction, guns have been outlawed. However, even in spite of there not being firearms anymore, people still continue to fight and kill one another, except now they rely on either bladed weapons or their bare-fists.  Within this new world of might makes right, where your strength and skill in combat determine your place in life, Nicola the Woodcutter is the most powerful man East of the Atlantic, a shadowy crime boss who rules his territory with an iron fist and his nine elite assassins called "The Killers" with his right-hand man, Killer No. 2, a cold-hearted, smooth-talking murderer in a red hat and armed with deadly cane-sword; and his unwilling lover, Alexandra, a femme fatale with a secret past. The citizens live in fear of Nicola's gang and wait for the hero who can overthrow them.  However, one night, a mysterious Drifter enters the "Horseless Horseman Saloon" and talks to the Bartender, asking for two things: A shot of whisky and a game of cards. However, the Drifter learns the only place in town with both of those things, "The Russian Roulette", is controlled by Nicola and only accepts rich players. Later on, another stranger enters the same bar, a lone samurai by the name of Yoshi; he travelled far and came to this town in order to fulfill his father's dying wish and recover a lost medallion which had been stolen from their village. Armed with crossed destinies, incredible fighting skills and the wisdom of the Bartender, the two eventually join forces to bring down the corrupt reign of Nicola.  After a string of altercations, leading the Drifter and Yoshi to injure several police officers as well as many of Nicola's goons, Killer No. 2 slays Yoshi's uncle and kidnaps his cousin, Momoko to work in Nicola's brothel. In retaliation, the pair teams up with the Bartender and a whole army of freedom fighters to invade Nicola's palace. As the Bartender rescues Momoko, he's briefly reunited with his long-lost love, Alexandra only for her to tragically be lost amidst the falling debris of the now burning brothel.  Meanwhile, after defeating several of Nicola's Killers, Yoshi faces off against Killer No. 2 and manages to fatally stab him while the Drifter advances toward Nicola, who proceeds to severely injure him, throwing an axe directly into his chest when his guard is down. However, despite his exhaustion from his previous battles and the injury he suffered, the Drifter doesn't give up and proceeds to slash Nicola's throat open with an arrowhead taken from Yoshi. As he stands over his fallen foe, the Drifter reveals the truth to a dying Nicola, explaining that his real motive for coming here was to avenge his father, whom Nicola had killed in an underhanded way.  With the reign of the Woodcutter and his gang finally brought to an end and Yoshi recovering his clan's medallion, the heroes part ways, hoping to meet each other again.Bunraku, Guy Moshe , TIFF 2010 Films