The Summer House (Obsession & Suspicion) The story follows Jane as she flees from England to France to stay with her aunt after her boyfriend Richard dumps her for another girl. However, he follows her to the summer house to try to win her back and, on the night of the Moon landing, tries to make his move, unsuccessfully. Blue Poles (Suspicion & Sincerity)  Libby is a young woman who struggles within herself during a time of "coming of age". She is split between commitments, responsibilities, desires and trying to make sense if it all. After stopping Miles, a country guy driving to Canberra to see the Blue Poles, and spending some time with him, she ultimately moves forward on her own. Grasshopper (Sincerity & Doubt) The tragic story of two people fighting to break down the walls which stand in the way of human communication. Travis hides behind technology, such as cell phones and computers, to avoid emotional interaction with others. Terri hides behind make-up, high heels and prostitution to avoid emotional interaction with others. Their lives intersect for a brief evening when Terri finds Travis' phone which he left behind on a train. This accident brings them together, but by the end of the evening, Terri commits suicide, leaving a photo of her underage daughter. Pennies (Doubt & True Love) Charlotte Brown is a waitress and young single mother who will do anything for her daughter Jenny, and when push comes to shove, she does. With a menacing figure on the other end of the phone and a time limit of two hours, she must raise enough money to ensure that she sees the smiling face of her child again. After dealing with a few very unusual customers through the day, Charlotte finally gets enough gratuity money, but they are taken at gunpoint. Finally a tip from an honest customer comes just in time to pay for her daughter's entry in a talent competition with Pennies from Heaven. Auto Motives (True Love & False Hope) The impacts of certain decisions, we made very easily but it is hard to follow through them.