A mysterious man dresses in a Santa Claus suit, complete with a mask. Once dressed, "Santa" captures and kills Jordan, a deputy sheriff, in the small town of Cryer, Wisconsin. Jordan is sleeping with the married Alana Roach and is electrocuted with Christmas lights in his home. The following day, Christmas Eve, Cryer Sheriff Cooper, calls Deputy Aubrey Bradimore in on her day off when Jordan doesn't arrive at work. Aubrey is a new addition to the sheriff's office and is still reeling from the unexpected death of her husband John. She doesn't think she's a good deputy, as she is trying to live up to her father, who is a retired sheriff. Aubrey was going to spend the holiday with her parents, but instead goes out to check on Jordan, finding his mangled body, and Roach, who has been dismembered, later in the day. Sheriff Cooper decides not to tell Mayor Revie until the case is solved.  Meanwhile, the masked Santa killer goes on a murder spree, killing those who have done something he considers 'naughty.' His next victim is a bratty teenage girl who he kills with a cattle prod. He then makes his way to the local motel, murdering two of three people during a softcore porn shoot. One woman manages to escape and tries to hide inside a Christmas tree farm, but the killer chops off one of her legs and throws her feet-first into a woodchipper. Sheriff Cooper calls in Deputy Stanley Giles and goes out to find the killer himself, but comes back empty-handed. Aubrey starts to suspect Santa Jim Epstein, a local drunken Santa portrayer, drug dealer Stein Karsson, and the perverted Reverend Madely.  Aubrey attempts to interrogate Karsson, but he flees. Aubrey gives chase, and she is nearly killed but is narrowly saved by Sheriff Cooper. That evening, during the town's annual Christmas parade, Aubrey searches for the killer but is unable to identify him among a crowd of men dressed in Santa Claus suits, though she arrests Jim when he flees from her. The killer Santa continues on his spree, arriving at the church and kills Reverend Madely for stealing donation money. He murders Mayor Revie, his porn star daughter Tiffany, and her boyfriend Dennis. Aubrey goes to Karsson's motel room to arrest him, and is forced to kill him when he draws a gun.  Aubrey notices a gift box that contains a piece of coal, and recalls that both the station and her father had received the same gift. Aubrey arrives at her parents' home, only to find her father dead and her mother hiding in the closet. Meanwhile, the killer attacks the station, killing Cooper, Giles, and Jim. Aubrey, along with the station secretary Brenda, are cornered by the killer inside the police station, where the killer tries to burn down the building with a homemade flamethrower. Aubrey is able to overpower the killer Santa and sets him on fire, leaving the station with Brenda. Unbeknownst to them, however, the killer manages to escape.  It is later revealed that the killer Santa is Ronald Jones, Jr., owner of a local chimney cleaning and repair service, and he survived the flamethrower attack. During the hunt for the killer, Aubrey learns from Karsson that Ronald Sr. had crashed his ex-wife's Christmas party many years ago, burning her alive with the homemade flamethrower. Aubrey's father was the deputy that responded to the situation and gunned him down, only to find out that Ronald Jr. was in his father's truck watching the entire time. The tragedy caused Ronald Jr. to go insane and seek revenge, dressing as Santa so he would not get caught during Cryer's Christmas festivities. The film ends with Ronald Jr leaving Cryer in his truck.