In 1944, Nazis capture Indiana Jones and Oxford archeologist Basil Shaw as they attempt to retrieve the Lance of Longinus from a castle in the French Alps. Astrophysicist Jürgen Voller informs his superiors the Lance is fake, but he has found half of Archimedes' Dial, an Antikythera mechanism built by the ancient Syracusan mathematician Archimedes which reveals time fissures, allowing for possible time travel. Indy escapes onto a Berlin-bound train filled with looted antiquities and frees Basil. He obtains the Dial piece, and the two leap from the train just before Allied forces derail it.  Twenty-five years later, in 1969, Indy is retiring from Hunter College in New York City. His wife, Marion, has recently filed for legal separation after their son Mutt was killed in the Vietnam War. Helena Shaw, Indy's goddaughter, visits him and wants to research the Dial. Indy warns that her deceased father, Basil, became obsessed with studying the Dial before relinquishing his half to Indy to destroy, which he never did.  As Indy and Helena retrieve the Dial half from the college archives, Voller's accomplices attack them. The CIA assists Voller, now working for NASA on the Apollo program. Helena, revealed as an antiquities smuggler, absconds with the Dial to auction it on the black market. Indy is framed for two colleagues' murders, forcing him to escape through both the New York ticker-tape parade for the crew of Apollo 11 and an anti-war protest. He seeks out old friend Sallah, now a New York cab driver.  Sallah surmises Helena will likely auction the Dial in Tangier, then helps Indy flee the country. At a Tangier hotel, Indy disrupts Helena's illegal private auction, but Voller and his henchmen arrive and steal the artifact. Indy, Helena, and her teen sidekick, Teddy Kumar, chase them through the streets in a tuk-tuk. The CIA intercepts Voller after the U.S. government disavows him for going rogue, but his cohorts murder the agents and steal their helicopter.  Indy, Helena, and Teddy trail Voller to Greece and team up with Indy's old friend, Renaldo, a professional sea diver. Guided by Basil's research, they dive to an ancient Aegean Sea shipwreck and retrieve a "Grafikos" tablet containing directions to the Dial's other half. Helena asks Indy where in history he would go if he gets the dial, to which he tearfully replies, back to stop Mutt from enlisting to fight in Vietnam, thus preventing Mutt's death and the disintegration of his and Marion's marriage. Voller arrives and murders Renaldo. Indy's group escapes and heads to Sicily, pursued by Voller.  Inside the Ear of Dionysius cavern, Indy and Helena find Archimedes' tomb and the Dial's second half. The pair also discover a 20th-century wristwatch on Archimedes' skeleton and a carving of a phoenix with propellers on his tomb. Voller appears and captures Indy, wounding him. Helena and Teddy escape and chase Voller. After reassembling the Dial, Voller reveals his plans to time travel back to 1939 to assassinate Adolf Hitler and help lead Germany to victory in World War II. At an airfield, Voller activates the Dial and locates a time fissure in the sky. Indy is held captive on Voller's stolen plane while Helena stows away through its landing gear. Teddy follows them in another plane.  While approaching the fissure, Indy realizes that continental drift could have altered the timeline coordinates. Rather than 1939, the group arrives at the Siege of Syracuse in 212 BC. The warring armies shoot down Voller's plane, believing it is a dragon. Indy and Helena parachute out just before the plane crashes, killing everyone aboard, while Teddy lands safely. Archimedes investigates the crash and finds Voller's body, wristwatch, and the Dial in the wreckage. Archimedes tells Indy and Helena that he created the Dial to bring users from the future through fissures that lead only to 212 BC, in order to obtain their assistance in the battle against the overwhelming Roman force. As the fissure begins to collapse, a wounded Indy wants to remain behind, feeling he has nothing to return to. Helena, fearing a time paradox and unwilling to give up on him, knocks Indy unconscious.  Back in the present, a recovering Indy awakens in his apartment. Helena, Teddy, Sallah, and Marion are there as well. After everyone leaves, Indy and Marion reconcile.