In 1962, New York con man Chester MacFarland and his wife Colette are touring Greece. At the Acropolis, they meet Rydal Keener, an American who is alienated from his family. The MacFarlands invite him to dinner.  Rydal goes back to their hotel to return a bracelet that Colette left in their shared taxi. Meanwhile, a private detective hired by victims of Chester's investment swindles visits the MacFarlands' hotel room and demands that Chester repay their money. The detective pulls a gun, but Chester accidentally kills him after a struggle in which the detective falls and hits his head. As Chester is carrying the body to the detective's hotel room, Rydal finds him in the corridor. They hastily pack their suitcases and flee the hotel with Rydal but without checking out, leaving their passports at the front desk.  Rydal arranges for false passports to replace those left behind and suggests waiting for the counterfeit documents in Crete. While there, the mutual attraction between Rydal and Colette continues to develop, much to Chester's frustration. Colette believes someone has recognized her from newspaper pictures; she runs off the bus at a stop. Chester and Rydal follow and together they walk to the ruins of Knossos. Chester lures Rydal into an underground labyrinth and knocks him out. Colette, believing that he has killed Rydal, refuses to go any further with Chester. As they argue, she loses her balance and falls to her death down a flight of stairs.  Rydal comes to and discovers Colette's dead body. Upon leaving the site, he unexpectedly encounters a teacher with a group of students, who curiously watch him depart. He follows Chester to Athens, where the two realize that they are bound together by two deaths. If either man is arrested, he will implicate the other. Arriving in Athens, they head to the airport, where Chester boards a plane to Istanbul, leaving Rydal with a suitcase containing documents that tie him to Colette.  Rydal locates Chester in Istanbul and telephones him, demanding a meeting in the Grand Bazaar and threatening to go to the police unless Chester pays him off. Unbeknownst to Chester, Rydal has already been arrested by an FBI agent who demands that Rydal wear a wire and extract a confession from Chester. Sensing a trap, Chester flees and a chase ensues. A policeman shoots Chester who, as he lies dying, confesses his responsibility for both deaths. After Rydal is exonerated and released, he attends his funeral and buries Colette's bracelet at Chester's grave.