After being rescued from their ordeal at the hands of the Blue Skeleton haunted house, five friends, Brandy, Zack, Bobby, Mikey, and Jeff, decide to get through their post-traumatic stress by facing their fears and going on another haunted house road trip. Brandy refuses to be a part of the road trip, despite the group's continuous efforts to have her join. She finally agrees to come along as long as the group agrees to not do any extreme haunts.  Brandy meets with Dr. Margee Kerr to talk about coping with her past trauma. The group then goes to visit the "Halloween Capitol of the World" in Anoka, Minnesota, and a haunted hayride where they are told to find the extreme haunt, "Hellbent."  The five move onto Georgia, where they partake in zombie-themed attractions. They see a road sign that says to "Seek out Hellbent." During a Redneck-themed haunt, they encounter an actor in a Blue Skeleton mask; and the manager reveals that he is not one of his employees. Brandy becomes upset that this seems to be a setup, but the group offers her more money in exchange for her agreeing to go to "Hellbent."  The Blue Skeleton gasses their van, and they awaken to being moved to the site of "Hellbent" in Outer Banks, North Carolina. Inside the haunt, they are given zippered hooded sweatshirts before being chloroformed. Brandy wakes up and is led through the haunt alone by a masked man. She is then made to watch Mikey be doused in gasoline and set on fire, Bobby being waterboarded with blood and hit with a cinderblock, and Zack have his arm cut off with a chainsaw. When she escapes from the masked man, she finds Jeff, hanged from the ceiling.  Brandy is led to an exit by several women in porcelain doll masks. She finds herself in a courtyard surrounded by men in Blue Skeleton masks who hand her a small coffin with a gun inside. She points the weapon at the men who suddenly remove their masks, revealing themselves as Bobby, Zack, Mikey, and Jeff. Brandy then turns the gun on herself and pulls the trigger, then collapses.  Footage from earlier reveals that the woman in the porcelain mask had showed her footage that revealed that the boys had been setting her up. The woman gives Brandy a prop gun and a blood packet while whispering in her ear.  Brandy rises from the ground shocking the rest of the group who then disclose that their plan was to help Blue Skeleton go viral.  A man in a Blue Skeleton mask is shown rearranging the letters from the sign in Georgia that read "Seek Out Hellbent" to "The Blue Skeleton."