Dominic Toretto and his team are requested by the Agency to steal a computer chip during its transit in Rome. Dom and his wife Letty Ortiz stay behind with his son Brian "Little B" Marcos, while the rest of the team, consisting of Roman Pearce, Tej Parker, Han Lue, and Ramsey, travels to Rome. A wounded Cipher arrives at Dom's home in the middle of the night and informs him and Letty that Dante Reyes, the son of drug lord Hernan Reyes, has turned her crew against her and is using them to target Dom as revenge for his father's death and the loss of his family's fortune ten years prior. When Little Nobody says that there is no Agency mission in Rome, Dom and Letty realize that Dante set them up and they go to rescue the team.  In Rome, Dante releases a metal ball bomb into the streets. Dom pushes it into the Tiber River, minimizing the damage, but Letty is arrested. Agent Aimes, the Agency's de facto leader since Mr. Nobody's disappearance, believes that Dom and his team are responsible for the bombing and begins a manhunt. In Los Angeles, Dom's brother Jakob rescues Little B and Mia, his and Dom's sister, from a squad sent by Dante to kidnap Little B, and with Mia's approval, takes Little B to a secret location in Portugal, where they will await Dom. Mr. Nobody's daughter, Tess, is convinced of the team's innocence and uses God's Eye to find Dom in Naples, informing him that Dante is in Rio de Janeiro.  There, Dom confronts Dante and meets Isabel Neves, the sister of Little B's late mother Elena. Dom later challenges Dante to a race, along with Isabel and his ally, Diogo. However, Dante wins while killing Diogo and injuring Isabel. Tess visits Letty at the black site and covertly wounds her to send her to the prison's treatment center, where Letty meets Cipher. They discover the black site is located in Antarctica and they must work together to escape. In London, Dom's team turns to Deckard Shaw for help, through the convincing of Han after a scuffle between himself and Deckard. Tess gets shot by the sniper and Dante steals the God's eye from Tess.    Aimes joins forces with Dom to fight Dante. Dante locates Little B in Portugal and kidnaps him. As Dom is cornered by mercenaries, Jakob sacrifices his life to take them all out, allowing Dom to rescue his son. Dante again corners Dom and his son, just as Roman, Tej, Han, and Ramsey arrive by plane to aid Dom. Realizing too late, Dom tells Roman to turn the plane around, but Aimes, revealed to be working for Dante, shoots down the plane, leaving each member of the team's fates unknown. Dom drives off the edge of the dam they are on to avoid Dante's trap, but Dante has the dam rigged with explosives and arms them, leaving Dom and Little B's fates unknown as well. In Antarctica, Gisele Yashar, who was presumed dead, emerges from a submarine to rescue Letty and Cipher.  In a mid-credits scene, Luke Hobbs infiltrates an abandoned theatre with a team of agents where he is contacted by Dante who tells him that he will be his next target for killing his father.