A Greyhound bus filled with variations of Gloria Steinem of all ages drives along the road. The Glorias begin to reminisce about the past. As a young child, Gloria is charmed by her father, an antique salesman whose 'make do' attitude aggravates her mother. A few years later, her parents are separated and a young Gloria is forced to be her mother's caretaker as she falls into a deep depression. To her surprise she finds various articles written with a male byline that her mother reveals were written by her before she was married.  As a young woman, Gloria travels to India on a fellowship. Returning to America she seeks out jobs as a journalist and, despite casual sexism and harassment, manages to succeed writing articles on fashion and dating. After writing an exposé on the poor working conditions of the waitresses working at the Playboy Club, Steinem's name is made. However she feels ashamed by the continued degradation of her work and turns down an offer to turn her article into a book.  Shortly after, Gloria's father is injured in a car accident. Arriving to see him a week after the accident she learns he has died and feels immense guilt that she delayed her visitation out of fear she would have to become his caretaker as she once was for her mother.  While attending the March on Washington to write a profile of James Baldwin, her discussions with a black woman open her mind to the prejudice faced by black women in America and to her own complicity as a white woman. She later attends a speak out on illegal abortion event that causes her to reflect on her own abortion which she had shortly before her fellowship. Moved by the stories of other women and knowing that magazines will not allow her to write the stories she wants, Gloria moves towards activism and befriends Dorothy Pitman Hughes and Florynce Kennedy, two black women who teach her about public speaking and activism.  In the early 1970s, Gloria and her friends publish their magazine Ms. in order to finally be able to talk about subjects they want. In the first issue, Gloria, along with 52 other famous women, publicly admits to having had an illegal abortion.  Gloria begins to move further into politics by campaigning for Bella Abzug. At the National Women's Political Caucus, Gloria and other women in various movements fight to establish the Equal Rights Amendment. The amendment ultimately fails.  Gloria continues to advocate, speak, and campaign despite being continually plagued by opposition to her pro-choice stance and questions about her marital status and lack of children. At the age of 66, she marries for the first time only to become widowed shortly after.  In 2016, she writes an article about the devastating effect of Hillary Clinton's loss during the 2016 United States presidential election. It is then revealed that the Greyhound bus is filled with protestors headed to the 2017 Women's March with the real-life Gloria Steinem on board. Footage from the 2017 Women's March, including the real Steinem's speech as well as footage from around the world is shown.