Jerry Hickfang struggles with schizophrenia, working at a plumbing fixtures factory and living above a bowling alley. He lies to his court-appointed therapist, Dr. Warren, concealing his hallucinations of his pets -- his good-natured dog, Bosco, and his antisocial cat, Mr. Whiskers -- talking to him.  Jerry invites his coworker Fiona to a Chinese dinner theater, but she stands him up to karaoke with her colleagues Lisa and Alison. When Fiona's car fails to start, she flags down Jerry as he drives by.  While driving her home, a deer crashes through his windshield. Hallucinating that the deer is begging him to put it out of its misery, Jerry cuts its throat with a hunting knife. Terrified, Fiona runs into the woods, and Jerry follows, still holding the knife. He trips and accidentally stabs her, seriously wounding her. Tearfully declaring that he loves her, he repeatedly stabs her to death while apologizing.  At home, Bosco suggests Jerry go to the police, but Mr. Whiskers says he should be unashamed of killing. Jerry collects Fiona's body, leaving several organs behind, and admits to Dr. Warren that he no longer takes his medication. He dismembers Fiona, storing her remains in numerous Tupperware containers, and her severed head begins talking to him, demanding he take his medication. Jerry does so, experiencing nightmares of his abusive father, and wakes up to find his hallucinations have ended: his pets and Fiona's decaying head no longer speaks, and his apartment is covered in garbage, animal waste, and blood.  Jerry throws away his pills, prompting his hallucinations to return his life to "normal," and Fiona urges him to kill again to provide her with "a friend". He asks Lisa on a date, taking her to his abandoned childhood home to kill her. While he is there, he is overwhelmed by the memory of his mother's death. She was also schizophrenic, and when the authorities arrived to have her committed, she forced Jerry to slit her throat, leading him to be institutionalized instead. Comforting Jerry, Lisa kisses him, and he leaves his knife behind as she brings him home to spend the night together.  Fiona's remains are discovered in the woods, and she and the pets confront Jerry over his urges to kill and the fact that their voices are only in his head. Lisa surprises Jerry at home, discovering the horrifying state of his apartment and Fiona's head. He struggles to explain himself as she tries to escape. After breaking her neck, he curls up with Lisa as she lays dying. Jerry dismembers her and places her head in the fridge beside Fiona's.  When Jerry's coworkers realize Lisa is missing and find an article about his mother's death, Alison goes to his apartment. Jerry kills her, keeping her head with the others, but becomes overwhelmed by the voices. He confesses his killings to Dr. Warren before kidnapping her to the countryside, desperate for her help. She reassures him about managing her own intrusive thoughts, while Jerry's coworkers break into his apartment and call the police.  Jerry returns home with a captive Dr. Warren, and police surround the building. Climbing down a vent into the bowling alley, Jerry accidentally breaks a gas pipe. Dr. Warren is rescued just before the gas leak causes an explosion. In the burning bowling alley, the voice of Mr. Whiskers urges Jerry to escape and continue killing, but the voice of Bosco tells him that life no longer has a place for him, and Jerry succumbs to smoke inhalation.  In a white void, Mr. Whiskers and Bosco confess that, despite their opposing beliefs, they did like each other. In this white void, Jerry meets his parents, Fiona, Lisa, and Alison. Jerry apologizes to his victims as Jesus appears, and they all dance and sing a musical number together.