In Cincinnati, four masked robbers get away with $3 million in cash from Hubert National Bank after the crew's leader executes point-blank the manager, Steven Hutchinson. FBI Special Agent Jonathan Montgomery heads the joint robbery-homicide investigation with Cincinnati PD. Forensics techs find a print matched to a dead Army Ranger, TJ Jackson. According to the official report, in 2011, TJ's unit went rogue, capturing civilian Alexander Hubert to collect a ransom. The exchange went awry and Alexander and the Rangers were killed by a Special Forces team. TJ's body was never recovered. As the sole heir, Jeffrey Hubert, Alexander's brother, became president of Hubert International. By tracking the serial numbers, the FBI discovers the robbers donated the money to a City Mission charity fund.  In a second heist at a different Hubert bank location, the robbers steal cash and the contents of personal safe deposit boxes belonging to Hubert and Ohio Senator Cook. David Dagley, a member of Hubert's security detail, is lured to the bank and then stabbed to death in an ambush. The killer leaves a bullet with TJ's fingerprint on it. Dagley was Commanding Officer of the Rangers who snatched Alexander Hubert but did not take part in the ransom scheme. The getaway vehicle is discovered registered to TJ's brother, James. Montgomery receives photo evidence of an apparent homosexual affair between Hubert and Cook, and the robbers attempt to persuade Montgomery into investigating Hubert's corruption. Converging on the Main Branch for the third robbery, the gang surprise Montgomery, who is escorted on his way out after an interview with Hubert. High-powered rifle firefights erupt across the lobby as the men engage in close quarters combat. One thief is killed, and the three others retreat into the downtown traffic. Victims Hutchinson and Dagley are found to be old members of an elite platoon with Cook.  Montgomery is sent a file stolen from Hubert detailing the conspiracy to commit murder and military cover-up. It leaks to the media, and the truth finally outs: Hubert had conspired with Cook to prevent Alexander from taking over the company. They briefed the Ranger unit with false mission intel of a terrorist threat in Costa Rica. The Rangers sent in were then assessed as rogue agents and ambushed by a Special Forces team with no knowledge of the Rangers' innocence. TJ was the sole survivor and was saved by Wells, then a Special Forces sniper.  With his assets frozen, Hubert hastily makes large unauthorized cash withdrawals to flee the country. TJ is tracked by the FBI to a concert venue and taken into custody. FBI Special Agent Wells is revealed to be the thief crew leader, and three special forces members that attacked TJ's squad are accomplices. He planned the heists as vengeance for the Ranger massacre he took part in. Recalling a key detail in a map location, Detective Mims predicts that Wells is the thief and arrives as Wells preps to leave the stash spot with the cash. Tormented by a guilty conscience and his wife's terminal cancer prognosis, Mims pleads with Wells to allow him to return the stolen money and atone. Wells tries to reason with Mims but kills him as Mims raises his weapon.  Some time later, Montgomery tracks Hubert to Tijuana, Mexico. He finds Wells preparing to kill Hubert in a restaurant and mentions that the stolen money would not bring anyone back, but there are many people suffering from Wells' actions. Montgomery takes a seat at Hubert's table, sips some wine, and stabs Hubert with a concealed blade. Wells shoots Hubert's bodyguard, shares a glance with Montgomery, and leaves.