Eight-year-old Pat sees the film 2001: A Space Odyssey and it creates a lifelong desire in him to create special effects movies, starting in his backyard with an 8mm camera.  His father initially supports his activities, but eventually leaves the family. He makes his own sequels to Planet of the Apes, Jaws, and Space: 1999 all while dreaming of one day making it big in Hollywood himself.  As a high school senior, Pat has yet to finish any of his films, much to the frustration of his best friend Bill Holmes, who is also his filmmaking partner and lead actor. Pat and Bill struggle to fit in at school but Bill's sometime girlfriend Robin enjoys their unique friendship. Pat is obsessed with 2001 and his obsession leads him to learn all he can about special effects artist and filmmaker Douglas Trumbull, whom he mostly knows about by reading magazines like American Cinematographer.  Pat works on a new film about an alien visiting his small town and his difficulty fitting in. He meets Linda, who works in his school cafeteria, while she is reading Arthur C. Clarke's 2001 novel.  He takes it as a sign, and they begin dating, but it is unclear if she's a better fit for him than Robin.  Linda has a protective friend named Tony who doesn't like Pat or Bill.  Pat's mother calls American Cinematographer editor Herb Lightman, who reluctantly agrees to host Pat on his visit to Hollywood and try to introduce him to Trumbull.  They visit Trumbull's studio, where they stumble upon Steven Spielberg and his team shooting effects for Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  Pat is overwhelmed by Spielberg and he ends up wandering around the studio.  He recognizes several people from his magazines and is awestruck by seeing them work.  As they leave the studio, they run into Trumbull, who doesn't have time for more than a "hello".  Lightman takes Pat to another studio – Industrial Light & Magic – where the technicians there are trying to wrap up the effects shots for Star Wars.  John Dykstra gives him a full tour, explaining the models and sets and his tour ends with a screening of an unfinished work print of Star Wars.  Pat returns home, to the disappointment of his family that he failed to make inroads with any of the people he met.  Pat has been enthralled by Star Wars, but fails to transfer his excitement to anyone back home.  He counts down the days until its release, hoping that once it comes out everyone in his town will love the movie, and he won't feel as alone.  On the release date, May 25, 1977, a series of events cause Pat to miss each of the first day's showing of Star Wars, including a fight with Bill, taking Robin to the hospital, and sleeping with Linda for the first time – and then breaking up.  He has a showdown with Tony, and beats him.  He makes it to the theater in time for a midnight showing, only to learn that "In Theaters Everywhere" doesn't include the one in his town.  Two weeks later, Robin takes Pat to the theater, which is finally showing Star Wars, and the line to get in goes around the block.  The finished film is everything he hoped it would be, and he packs up and leaves for California with the encouragement of his family and Bill.