Sheri Campari (Melanie LaPatin) is the single mother of two daughters: Tasi (Shannon Lea) and Toni (Laurel Vail). Sheri is training Tasi to become a professional competitive ballroom dancer with the help of Toni and flamboyantly gay dance partner Cedric Michaels (Benji Schwimmer). They are always training and the pressure is growing as the prospects of becoming professional get  closer.  Toni sees Tasi throwing up in the bathroom and thinks it's  because of the diet their mother enforces to maintain Tasi's figure. Toni tells Tasi to confide in her but Tasi tells her is none of her business. Later on, it is let known that Tasi is pregnant with twins. The father is a neighbor who apparently doesn't want the responsibility and argues with Tasi at the restaurant where Toni works.  Cedric takes Toni to a dancing club where he disappears with a boyfriend. Alone in the club, Toni meets Mona Saunders (Nicole Dionne) whom Toni leads in dancing. Mona takes Toni  to her home and they end up getting involved in a lesbian relationship.  Oblivious to Tesi's pregnancy, Sheri tries to fit a dress until Tesi blurts out that she's not fat, she's pregnant. Meanwhile, Mona gets hurt by Toni wanting to keep their relationship a secret. Cedric and Tesi convince Toni to take part in the upcoming dancing competition to replace Tasi. Toni agrees on the condition that they both help her train and that her partner will be Mona. Tesi is relieved as she perceives that her pregnancy will be less of an issue with Sheri than Toni's lesbianism.  When Sheri sees Toni practicing with Mona, she storms out. The sisters have to fend on their own with the help of Cedric and Mona who take the sisters for the first time to a grocery store which was always Sheri's job.  Eventually, they go to the dance competition but the judges do not approve Toni and Mona's participatipation as it is against their bylaws. Suddenly, Sheri appears and provides an impassionate defense of the right of Mona and Toni to participate in the dance competition. In the middle of Sheri's defense, Tasi announces that she's going into labor and they all have to go to a hospital. The film ends with the newborn babies in Sheri's arms.