In 1959, 14-year-old Priscilla Beaulieu is residing with her family in Bad Nauheim, Germany, where her father is stationed in the U.S. Military. At a party on the base, Priscilla meets 24-year-old renowned singer Elvis Presley, who has been drafted into the military at the peak of his fame. Elvis takes an immediate interest in Priscilla, and the two begin casually dating despite her parents' concern over their age difference and Elvis's celebrity status. Elvis eventually returns to the United States after his service and loses contact with Priscilla, leaving her crestfallen.  In 1962, Elvis reconnects with Priscilla, proclaiming his love for her, and asks that she come to the U.S. to live with him at Graceland, his estate in Memphis, Tennessee. Elvis purchases Priscilla airfare to make a visit, during which she is welcomed by Elvis, his friends and business partners, and his beloved grandmother. The couple take a trip to Las Vegas, where Priscilla indulges in prescription drug abuse with Elvis. A disheveled Priscilla returns to Germany, and, with Elvis' help, convinces her reluctant parents to allow her to move to Graceland and complete her senior year of high school in Memphis in 1963.  While her time spent with Elvis at Graceland is pleasant, Priscilla is treated as an object of fascination and derision at her Catholic high school due to her association with him. Though she is welcomed by Elvis's grandmother and his staff at Graceland, Priscilla soon finds herself controlled by Elvis's gruff father and stepmother, and isolated during Elvis's lengthy trips away to Los Angeles, where he is shooting a number of musical comedies. On one occasion, Elvis has Priscilla model dresses for him and his friends, and urges her to revamp her appearance by dying her hair black and donning fake eyelashes. Distracted by the new conditions of her life, Priscilla narrowly manages to graduate high school.  Priscilla's isolation and compartmentalization of her life begins to take a toll on her mental state, which is worsened by the highly publicized rumors of Elvis's alleged infidelities, including with his co-star Ann-Margret. Priscilla makes an unexpected appearance in Los Angeles to confront Elvis about the affair, but is defeated when Elvis threatens her and insists that she must learn to accept his behavior.  Eventually, in 1967, Elvis proposes to Priscilla, and the two marry. Their happiness is fleeting, however, as Elvis's career pressures and worsening substance abuse negatively affects the couple's relationship. Priscilla quickly becomes pregnant, and gives birth to their child, Lisa Marie, in early 1968, as Elvis is preparing for his NBC comeback special. Priscilla struggles to navigate the relationship as Elvis grows increasingly emotionally volatile, and the two eventually begin leading separate lives, with Priscilla spending most of her time in California, and becoming romantically involved with Mike Stone, her karate instructor.  While visiting Elvis in his hotel room after a performance in 1973, Priscilla finds him inebriated, and he makes forceful sexual advances toward her. She later informs him that she is filing for divorce. After making a visit to Graceland and saying goodbye to Elvis's housekeepers and grandmother, Priscilla drives away, as a number of Elvis's fans loiter outside the property gates.