The movie starts with Saxx in an LA prison, so high on drugs that he cannot be questioned. However, prison guard  Johnson seems to take a special interest in him, bribes a colleague and puts him in a holding cell for cellblock K-11, a unit for LGBT inmates.. With him is a young transgender woman who calls herself "Butterfly". After one night, Saxx is put in block K-11, though Butterfly is to remain in the holding cell overnight. Among others, he meets the self-proclaimed boss Mousey and the burly child molester Detroit. At first, the inmates frighten and disgust him, but he gradually begins to enjoy their company. There is a great trade in cocaine in the cellblock, which is being smuggled in by the guard who put Saxx in K-11, Lt. Johnson. When drug kingpin Ben refuses to give Johnson a bigger cut of the drugs, he is put in general population. Lt. Johnson attempts to rape Saxx during a riot caused by Mousey. After being raped by Detroit twice, Butterfly brutally murders him with a pair of razor blades and the other inmates help her to hide the weapons and they claim not to have witnessed the incident.  Saxx is told that he is being charged with the murder of his associate, songwriter Ian Sheffield, who happened to be having an affair with Saxx's wife. Saxx's lawyer informs him that his wife, the only witness of Ian's death, wants to divorce him, leaving him with only $30,000 and his car. If Saxx does not agree, his wife will testify that the death was a murder; if he does sign, she will tell police the death was an accident. Saxx signs the documents, knowing he will be released soon. He makes a deal with Mousey to get back at the corrupt Lt. Johnson before he leaves: Mousey has sex with Johnson and then files rape charges against him. After prison officers discover Johnson having sex with Mousey, Johnson is charged with rape and the murder of Detroit before being taken into custody and put in a cell next to Ben, who implies Johnson will be punished by other inmates. To complete the deal, Saxx deposits $13,000 in Mousey's account before being released. When he is a free man, his only assets are $17,000 and his car. When he gets into his luxury car, his first step is to get rid of the drug stash hidden in the vehicle.