On February 6, 1999, a team of three biologists, led by Professor Jonathan Hoffman, investigate a series of supposed wildlife killings in a wooded area near a small New York town. One of the biologists, Bianca, suspects that the killings may have something to do with a recent earthquake. When Hoffman and the other biologist, Gabriel, go off to investigate the wildlife disappearances, they discover the corpse of a mutilated deer. Upon returning to the campsite, they find that Bianca has discovered a hole in the ground. From this, the group determines that a prehistoric creature that has been frozen for thousands of years was freed by the earthquake, and has been killing the wildlife. The creature appears and kills both Gabriel and Bianca, leaving Hoffman to deduce that it is a "snow shark" before it attacks him.  Twelve years later, the snow shark has become a town legend. The town's mayor, Shawn Overman, is informed when two residents are killed by the shark, and he and Sheriff Donald Chapman hold a town meeting. During the meeting, one of the residents, Mike Evans, claims that the killings were caused by the shark, despite him having said to have killed the creature seven years earlier. Against Chapman's warnings, he sets out to kill the shark once and for all. That night, Chapman and his son Ethan get into an argument. Ethan leaves to drink beer outside with his friend Doug, and is killed by the shark while urinating. The next day, with the rest of the police force already at the scene, a distraught Chapman sees Ethan's corpse and questions Doug about the incident. When Doug claims that Ethan's death was caused by a shark, Chapman believes him and becomes determined to kill it.  Cryptozoologist Lincoln Anderson, biologist Wendy Gardner, and hunter Cameron Caine visit the town and have a brief meeting with Overman to discuss capturing the shark. With six of his friends, armed with guns, Mike ventures into the forest to hunt the shark. The shark kills everyone in the party except for Mike. Following this, Chapman, Lincoln, Wendy, and Cameron make their way into the woods, armed with a miniature crossbow, a shotgun, and a motion-sensing camera. They set up the camera on a tree and depart. At the town bar, Professor Hoffman enters, having gone into hiding and now wearing an eyepatch. Later, he and a grieving Mike drink beers.  When Lincoln finds that the camera has not detected any motion, the group sets out into the forest once more. Wendy is dragged away by the shark and killed. The shark attacks Cameron, and Chapman shoots Cameron in the head. Hoffman and Mike soon join up with Chapman and Lincoln. Hoffman plans to start a large fire to attract the shark, as he surmises that the heat will confuse it, but it kills him before he can do so. The shark bites off Mike's legs, and Chapman and Lincoln flee. Mike pulls the pin on a hand grenade, causing both him and the shark to explode. After reporting the incident to the police station, Chapman and Lincoln see multiple shark fins in the snow and escape. Later, a woman named Daphne approaches Ethan's grave to lay a wreath, and a shark fin approaches her as she walks out of the graveyard.