After foiling Steam Smythe's plan to destroy a telephone industry, Ben Tennyson feels like everything he does is getting repetitive and that there's no one left to give him a challenge. He, his cousin Gwen, and Grandpa Max suddenly get an urgent call from their friend Phil, who tells them that a meteor is heading towards Earth and threatens to destroy it. He also tells Ben that the key he used to unlock his Omni-Kix armor is actually in reverse and turning it into its proper lock could unlock an additional upgrade. Ben does so, unlocking the Omni-Naut Armor, armor that enables him and his aliens to fly and survive in space. Ben flies into space and attempts to stop the meteor, but enters a portal to another galaxy while the meteor crashes on Earth. It is revealed to be Ben's arch-enemy Vilgax, who has escaped the Null Void and wants revenge against him.  After exiting the portal, Ben finds himself stranded in space and is abducted by the Incurseans, who believe him to be Vilgax. He tries to convince them otherwise, but is banished to the Null Void. He soon encounters alien criminals who try to take his Omnitrix, but are stopped by Azmuth, a Galvan and the creator of the Omnitrix, who takes it from Ben. Ben tries to convince Azmuth to give the Omnitrix back so he can save his planet, but Azmuth refuses to do so until Ben tells him he is willing to rescue his planet even without the Omnitrix. In response, Azmuth agrees to give it back as long as he passes a trial first, which Ben accepts.  On Earth, the Tennysons and Phil try to find Ben but instead find Ben's rival Kevin, whose Antitrix is malfunctioning. They convince him to protect the Earth in Ben's absence in exchange for the Antitrix being repaired. Vilgax then arrives and fights Kevin, ultimately taking the Antitrix and becoming a hybrid of all of Kevin's aliens known as AntiVilgax, who begins to terraform the Earth.  Meanwhile, in the Null Void, Azmuth reveals his trial to Ben: he must pass through a large pipe with traps before the timer on his Omnitrix runs out. After numerous attempts fail, Azmuth tells Ben that all his usual tricks with the Omnitrix are keeping him from unlocking its true potential. As Ben tries to figure out what Azmuth's advice is about, two of the alien criminals attack him and try to take the Omnitrix. While they are fighting, a rift opens and begins sucking one of the criminals in while the other one abandons him. Ben tries to save him but is unable to do so until he figures out how to switch out the DNA Pods in the Omnitrix and changes into a slimy alien dubbed Goop. He rescues the alien but fails to finish the trial. However, Azmuth tells him that by saving the alien, he has already proved himself worthy, and opens a portal to let him leave.  Ben sees the Incursean flagship getting sucked into a Null Void portal and helps them to safety, but passes out in the process. However, they rescue him after realizing that he is not Vilgax due to his acts of heroism and help him return to Earth, where he finds Vilgax and Kevin fighting. Vilgax overpowers them both and obtains the Omni-Kix Key, becoming a cosmic entity named Alien V and killing Ben's Galvanic Mechamorph clone Glitch. Ben starts to lose faith again until Azmuth calls him using the Omnitrix and reminds Ben of what he learned during his trial in the Null Void. With his faith restored, Ben adds a new alien into his arsenal, a giant alien dubbed Way Big, and defeats Vilgax.  Azmuth and the Incurseans arrive as Azmuth uses the Omnitrix to repair the Earth, and takes Vilgax into custody. The Tennyson family try to find Kevin, who disappeared after the fight, while Phil recovers Glitch's remains with the hopes of rebuilding him. Phil and the Tennysons head to Nebraska for another vacation.