Clara Reynolds lives in a historic Connecticut home with her husband Ted, a semi-famous actor. Searching for a shoe she believes she lost on the road, she attempts to report its disappearance at the police station. Her daughters Julie and Riley, working actors and former sitcom child stars, return home to celebrate the birthday of their family dog, Ollie. Belittled by her self-absorbed family, Clara experiences unusual visions around the house, including a ghostly woman begging to be let inside.  Riley buys marijuana from former classmate Joe, whom Ted invites to stay for dinner. A magazine photoshoot of Ted, Julie, and Riley leaves Clara feeling even more overlooked. During dinner, the ghost appears and leads Clara to angrily demand that the family stop mocking her, to no avail. As the others drunkenly dance to "MacArthur Park", the ghost embraces Clara, thanking her. Joe reveals that the Reynolds’ home was built in 1862 by a sea captain for his daughter, Adelia; she was institutionalized before ever entering the house, and her father killed himself in the woods nearby.  Fed up with her family’s disrespect, Clara defaces a self-portrait Ted was painting, while Ted, Julie, and Riley bicker about their careers. Ted, having been fired from a project by Julie’s fiancé, criticizes an audition monologue he makes her perform, and nearly drowns Joe in a punch bowl. While the family performs a séance to summon the spirit of Adelia, Clara locks them in the basement and takes Joe upstairs. She kisses him, but apologizes and leads him downstairs to unlock the door, but instead tries to set fire to the basement. Joe intervenes, but leaves after Clara threatens him with a kitchen knife. She realizes the ghost is Adelia, whose spirit she has allowed into the house.  Ted breaks down the basement door but is unable to find Clara, and Riley is nearly hit by a flowerpot pushed by an unseen force. An erratic Clara confronts her family with the knife, and they discover Ollie has eaten unattended brownies. Disappearing into the woods, Clara appears to kill a coyote. Her family drives Ollie to the veterinarian, and are notified of a drunk woman at the police station, who turns out not to be Clara. Returning home, they find Clara’s bloody shirt at the edge of the woods, and discover her missing shoe in her closet. Driving through town, they discover Clara walking naked, and bring her home. As the family goes to sleep, Clara still hears the voice of Adelia.