New Jersey teenager Nick O'Leary is a straight bass player in a queercore band named The Jerk-Offs. Heartbroken after being dumped by his girlfriend Tris, Nick continues making and sending her "breakup" mix CDs. Bandmates Thom and Dev convince Nick to perform at a club and search for a secret show that legendary indie band Where's Fluffy? is performing in New York City that night.  Norah Silverberg attends Convent of the Sacred Heart with her friends Tris and Caroline. She appreciates Nick's taste in music when retrieving his mix CDs that Tris threw away. The three end up at Arlene's Grocery in Manhattan, where The Jerk-Offs are playing. After Tris teases her about not having a boyfriend, Norah asks Nick to pretend to be one and kisses him, not knowing he is the one Tris dumped. Caroline gets drunk and Norah wants to take her home, but Nick's bandmates offer to do so and encourage Norah and Nick to find the Where's Fluffy? show together.  When Thom and Dev stop at Gray's Papaya for hot dogs, a confused Caroline escapes from Thom's van, believing they plan to sexually assault her. Nick and Norah meet with Thom and Dev to try to find her. A confusing phone call leads them to look for her at a club that Where's Fluffy? is rumored to be playing, but cannot find Caroline or the band. They finally locate Caroline when she gives them clues in another phone call.   A jealous Tris catches up with the group, and Nick leaves them to talk to her. An upset Norah meets her on-again-off-again boyfriend Tal at a club. When she realizes he only hopes to get a record deal with Norah's father, a famous producer, she promptly leaves him. Nick decides to confront Tris, but she pleads for a ride home and flirts with him in the car. They stop, and while Tris seductively dances in front of the car, Nick reminisces fondly about Norah and the night's events and drives away, leaving Tris behind.  Nick calls Norah, apologizing for leaving, and she agrees to meet him again. They go to Electric Lady Studios, a music studio owned by Norah's father. Norah gets Nick to play something he wrote in the studio and then joins him in the recording room. They kiss, and Nick gives Norah her first orgasm. Norah gets a text message from Caroline telling her she learned the location of the Where's Fluffy? show. When they arrive at the show, they run into Tris and Tal. Tal starts a fight with Nick, but Thom and Dev's friend Lethario steps in and headbutts Tal. Nick and Norah share a smile and leave together. At Penn Station, Nick admits that he does not care about missing the concert, and they kiss on the escalator as the sun rises over New York City.