DJay is a pimp and drug dealer living in Memphis, Tennessee, who is dissatisfied with his life, and is going through a midlife crisis. After reacquainting himself with an old friend and sound technician, Key, DJay decides to make hip hop music.  Key and his sound-mixer friend Shelby help DJay put together several songs in which he expresses the frustrations of struggling to survive in the ghetto. DJay proves his talent through rhyming as well as writing lyrics, and his first song appears to have a decent chance of getting local radio play.  The group experiences setbacks throughout the creative process. DJay must hustle those around him in order to procure equipment and recording time; in particular, he offers Nola, his top prostitute, to a microphone salesman, and she is outraged afterwards. They argue, but he says he will put her in charge of something one day. Also, Key's relationship with his wife becomes strained. DJay throws out one of his prostitutes, Lexus, along with her infant son, for ridiculing him. Pregnant Shug, another of DJay's girls, joins in the creative process, singing hooks. The group eventually records several tracks, including "Whoop That Trick" and "It's Hard out Here for a Pimp". After their first recording, DJay gains romantic feelings toward Shug, even sharing a passionate kiss.   DJay's friend Arnel informs him that Skinny Black, a successful Memphis rapper, will be returning for a Fourth of July party. DJay gains admittance under the pretext of providing marijuana, with the true intention of giving Black his demo tape. Black is dismissive at first, but DJay successfully persuades him into taking the tape.  Before leaving the party, DJay discovers that a drunken Black has destroyed his tape. DJay confronts Black who insults him. In a fit of rage, DJay nearly beats Black to death but attempts to resuscitate him. A member of Black's entourage enters the bathroom and pulls out his gun. DJay shoots the man in his arm with Black's gun and escapes.  DJay arrives home to find the police and Black's associates waiting for him. DJay turns himself in and tells Nola to safeguard his writing pad with his lyrics on it, also placing her in charge of sending his songs to radio stations. He then exchanges a glance with a tearful Shug before a brawl breaks out after one of Black's crew sucker punches him. DJay is charged with assault and possession of a firearm and is sentenced to 11 months in prison.  While serving his time, DJay is visited by Key and learns that Nola has successfully gotten radio DJs to play his songs, which have become local hits. The pair then prepare to discuss their future business plans. Two correctional officers ask DJay to listen to their demo. Humbled and flattered, DJay accepts.