During the late Middle Ages in Verona, two wealthy families, the Montagues and Capulets, have been feuding for centuries. One day at the market place, they start a brawl which infuriates the Prince. He threatens that if the peace is disturbed again, he shall take their lives. Meanwhile, Romeo, a young Montague, reveals he is in love with Lord Capulet's niece, Rosaline. Romeo's cousin, Benvolio urges him to forget her but Romeo rebuffs him.  That night, Romeo sneaks into a party at the Capulets with Benvolio and his friend Mercutio, hoping to see Rosaline. Instead, Romeo sees Juliet, and falls in love with her. Juliet feels the same. They share a dance, then find a quiet place and share a passionate kiss. Juliet's Nurse interrupts and when Romeo talks to her, he learns that Juliet is Lord Capulet' daughter.  After the party, Romeo sneaks into Juliet's garden and hears Juliet expressing her love for him. He climbs the balcony and they agree to get married the next day. Romeo seeks help from Friar Laurence.  The Friar agrees to marry them, hoping their union may end the war between the families. After the ceremony, Juliet returns home. Romeo catches up with Mercutio and Benvolio but they meet Tybalt and his men. They fight, and Tybalt stabs Mercutio. Romeo runs after Tybalt seeking revenge, and kills him. As the result, the Prince banishes Romeo from Verona.  The Friar sends Romeo to Juliet, and they consummate their marriage, but Romeo has to leave in haste the next morning.  Juliet is shocked when her father brings news that he has arranged a marriage for her with Count Paris. When she protests, he says he will disown her if she does not obey.  She seeks Friar Laurence's for help, threatening to kill herself if he does not have a solution. The Friar gives her a potion that will put her in a deathlike sleep, until Romeo can come and rescue her.  They can then run away together to Mantua.  The Friar writes a letter to Romeo, informing him of the plan.  Juliet drinks the potion that night. Her parents find her next morning and her funeral is arranged.  Learning of her death, Benvolio hastens to tell Romeo.  Meanwhile, the Friar's letter has not reached Romeo, so Romeo believes Benvolio's news.   Romeo buys poison and goes to the Juliet's resting place, intending to take his own life. Paris tries to stop him, but is killed in a sword fight. Romeo kisses Juliet one last time, then drinks the poison, unaware Juliet has awakened. Juliet is overjoyed to see him and they kiss but Romeo suddenly collapses and dies in her arms. The Friar arrives to find a heartbroken Juliet weeping over Romeo's dead body. He hears some guards coming and leaves to hold them off, trying to persuade Juliet to come with him, without success. When Juliet hears the approaching watchmen, she finds and stabs herself with Romeo's dagger. The Friar returns to find them both dead.  Their funeral is held together and the Capulets and Montagues finally reconcile, ending their feud. During the procession, Benvolio steps forward and joins their hands.