Married couple Vivian and David Cooper are talking about their vacation being something good for them three weeks prior leading up to. David Cooper a retired marine and his brother's best friend John are at the bar talking about what is going on in David's life at the time. When they overhear a few guys insulting his wife who was reporting the news on TV. After fighting the two men David and John leave the bar. John invites David who they refer to as Coop and his wife on a trip to retrieve his paid for yacht in the Virgin Islands. John mentions to David that he needs to talk to a therapist about what is happening to him and he shrugs it off with no concern on top of putting his daily dose of pills in the sink. Vivian returns home from work and talks about how John called her about the vacation and suggests that they go and need this time. Later that night David tells Vivian that they can go on the trip. Arriving at the boat John talks to the couple about touring the boat before they leave the dock.  Suspect at John's advances at Vivian he pays attention to John a little closer. They talk about David's brother and the memories. John leaves the couple to go for a smoke and David mentions that John seems off. Things get tensed with the guy because John continually asking about the war. John apologizes after David tells him that he doesn't like to talk about it. Vivian goes to find rum in John's room and finds a picture of her and John with David torn off the picture.  John starts to reveal disturbing behavior along with David. While David and John are swimming; there is a guy by the name of Jack covering his bleeding eye sees their boat across the water.  David finds the picture that Vivian found earlier. He suggested that they play truth or dare and John ask him how many people has he killed.  Coop decided that he wanted to ask his question or make his request to the two. He suggested that Vivian and John kiss. They both declined. Walking up from the night they had Coop finds John in the command room and is told the boat stop working. David decides to go look for help and he runs into Jack. After being shot by Jack; Coop is laying in the water and Jack heads to John's boat. Back at the boat John confesses his love for Vivian but she declines his advances. Jack comes to John's boat saying that he can help with a fee given. John agrees.  Vivian continues to call David's phone looking for him and she realizes that Jack has her husband's phone. So Jack takes Vivian inside the yacht and drives off leaving John in Jack's boat. Finding John on the boat and telling  David that Jack killed and took Vivian so David tries to hotwire the boat and he goes after them.