Following his release from prison, Danny Ocean violates his parole by leaving New Jersey and traveling to Los Angeles to meet his friend and partner in crime Rusty Ryan to propose a heist. The two then travel to Las Vegas to pitch the plan to their wealthy friend and former casino owner Reuben Tishkoff to sponsor the heist.   The plan consists of simultaneously robbing three casinos owned by Terry Benedict, a rival of Reuben: the Bellagio, the Mirage, and the MGM Grand. Aware of the casinos' high level of security, Reuben is reluctant to get involved, but eventually agrees to finance the operation after realizing it would be a way for him to get revenge on Benedict.   The Nevada Gaming Commission requires casinos to have enough cash on hand to cover all their patrons' bets. On the night of an anticipated boxing match, the Bellagio vault will contain more than $150million.   Danny and Rusty recruit eight criminal specialists they know: con men Frank Catton and Saul Bloom, auto specialists Virgil and Turk Malloy, explosives expert Basher Tarr, electronic surveillance technician Livingston Dell, acrobat "The Amazing" Yen, and pickpocket Linus Caldwell. The team carries out reconnaissance at the Bellagio to learn about the security, the routines, the behaviors of the casino staff, and the building itself. They also create a precise replica of the vault, which is built in order to practice maneuvering through security systems.   During the first planning phase, the team discovers that Benedict is dating Danny's ex-wife, Tess. Deducing that Danny is incapable of impartial judgment in any matter involving Tess, Rusty urges him to give up on the plan, but Danny refuses.  On the night of the fight, the plan is put into motion. Danny shows up at the Bellagio and is seen by Benedict, who locks him in a storeroom with Bruiser, a bouncer. However, Bruiser is on Danny's payroll and allows him to access the vent system and help other team members seize the vault.   Rusty calls Benedict on a cell phone Danny dropped in Tess's coat earlier. He says that unless Benedict lets them have half of the vault's money, they will blow all of it up; Benedict sees video footage confirming Rusty's claim. Benedict complies, having his bodyguards take the loaded duffel bags to a waiting van. Benedict has his men follow the van while he calls in a SWAT team to try to secure the vault.   The SWAT team's arrival causes a shootout that sets off the explosives and incinerates the remaining cash. After affirming the premises otherwise secure, the SWAT team collects their gear and departs.  As Benedict arrives to examine the ruined vault, his men stop the van, finding it was driven by remote control and the bags were only loaded with flyers for prostitutes. Benedict studies the video footage and realizes it is not real. Danny's team used their "practice" vault to create fake footage to fool Benedict. Furthermore, they themselves were the SWAT team and used their gear bags to covertly take all of the vault's money.   Benedict goes to see that Danny has seemingly been locked up in the storeroom throughout the heist and thus innocent of any involvement. As Tess watches via closed-circuit television, Danny tricks Benedict into admitting that he would give her up in exchange for the money. Furious, Benedict orders his men to escort Danny off the premises.   Tess leaves Benedict and exits the hotel just in time to see Danny arrested for violating his parole. The rest of the team bask in the victory in front of the Fountains of Bellagio before silently going their separate ways.  When Danny's prison sentence is complete, he is released, and finds that Rusty and Tess are there to greet him. They drive off, followed by Benedict's bodyguards.