Pharmaceutical representative Tony Jordan and his wife, estate agent, Elizabeth Jordan, appear outwardly successful; they have a large house, plenty of money, and a beautiful daughter named Danielle. Behind the façade, however, Tony and Elizabeth's relationship is strained. Tony is callous, verbally abusive and thinking about cheating on Elizabeth. In addition, because his job requires frequent travel, he is almost never there for his daughter.  Elizabeth goes to work with an elderly woman, Miss Clara, to sell her house. Miss Clara senses the stress Elizabeth is under, and suggests that Elizabeth fight for their marriage by praying for Tony. Miss Clara shows Elizabeth a special closet she has dedicated to praying, which she calls her "War Room"; as she puts it, "in order to stand up and fight the enemy, you need to get on your knees and pray." As Elizabeth starts to seriously pray for her husband, Tony leaves for a business trip, having dinner with a beautiful woman who invites him back to her flat. Just as he is about to leave with her, he becomes nauseous and runs to the bathroom to vomit.  Shortly afterward, Tony is fired for stealing drug samples; unbeknownst to Elizabeth and Danielle, he has been illegally selling those stolen samples to make even more money. Realising he has hit rock bottom, Tony rededicates his life to God. He now realises that he has to return both the stolen samples and his ill-gotten gains, even though revealing what he's done could send him to prison. Tony meets with his former boss and confesses; his former boss is moved by his willingness to admit his wrongdoing and make amends, and decides not to press charges. Tony begins to show an interest in his daughter's skipping rope skills and offers to participate with her and her friends in the upcoming double Dutch competition at the local community center. Tony and his daughter's team takes second place in the competition, creating a new bond between him and his daughter.  Elizabeth successfully sells Miss Clara's house to a retired pastor who realises someone has been praying in the closet.  Shortly afterwards, Tony is offered a job as the director of the community center.