A group of friends are having a party at the beach. A girl named Heather is recording the party when two of the boys, Vance and Gilbert, find a large ball covered in a strange gooey substance. All the teenagers agree to put their mobile phones in the trunk of a car in an effort to ensure that no one will post compromising pictures or videos online.  The next morning, two of the friends, Kaylee and Mitch, wake up on the lifeguard shack. Kaylee's boyfriend, Jonah, awakens in a nearby convertible next to a girl named Chanda, along with Vance and his girlfriend, Ronnie. Gilbert wakes up, stuck from the waist down in a trash barrel, having been put there as a prank after passing out. A girl named Marsha wakes up, topless, having fallen asleep on top of a picnic table. The rest of the teenagers, including Heather, are nowhere to be found; there are, instead, a bunch of empty sleeping bags in their places.  Marsha accuses Heather of having stolen her top; she leaves the picnic table to find her. Kaylee, witnessing a bird suddenly getting sucked into the sand, tries to warn her, but Marsha does not listen and is immediately immobilized by something hidden underneath the beach. Vance attempts to help her, but he falls and has his face eaten off when he touches the sand, and he and Marsha are pulled into the ground. Jonah concludes that the cracked ball from last night must have been an egg, and whatever hatched from it has burrowed under the sand and has wiped out everyone, including Vance, Heather, and Marsha.  The group cannot call for help, as their phones are locked in the car, and the car's battery is dead from their having left the headlights on all night. After some experimenting to determine the creature's reach, Jonah uses two surfboards as a bridge to reach the picnic table. He makes it to the table, but not before the creature has slashed his stomach, leaving a painful wound that starts seeping pus. He notes, though, that the creature won't go near the ashes of the previous night's bonfire, indicating that it hates fire. Ronnie and Chanda attempt to retrieve the phones from the car, but Ronnie gets her fingers crushed under the trunk's lid.  A beach patrolman drives onto the beach. The group warns him, then are shocked to see him walk across the sand unharmed, protected by his boots. The patrolman assumes the group is on drugs and taunts them, but when he drops his keys and tries to retrieve them, the buried creature attacks him. He temporarily fights it off using his pepper spray, but the monster eventually consumes him. Kaylee manages to retrieve his pepper spray, which gives Mitch the idea to reach the truck by putting his flip-flops on and wrapping his feet with towels soaked in pepper spray. Chanda throws him towels from the car, but when Mitch attempts to catch the second towel, the banister breaks and he falls onto the sand, where the creature kills and consumes him.  Taking charge, Kaylee frees Ronnie's fingers from the car trunk, then has Chanda use the broken pieces of the boardwalk as a bridge to get to Jonah on the picnic table. Meanwhile, Gilbert discovers that he has cut his stomach on the edge of the trash barrel, attracting the creature. Kaylee and Ronnie make their way across the makeshift bridge to Chanda and Jonah. At the last step, Ronnie trips and, despite Kaylee's efforts, she is seized and pulled under. In desperation, Chanda follows through with Mitch's plan and runs across the sand to the truck with pepper-sprayed towels wrapping her feet. The group celebrates for a brief moment, but then Gilbert is pulled down through the bottom of the barrel and devoured. The creature, having grown much larger tentacles, bangs against the patrol car, knocking Chanda unconscious.  At nightfall, Chanda wakes up and finds a self-inflatable raft in the back of the truck. She inflates the raft, and Kaylee and Jonah use it to reach the patrolman's car. However, the ground erupts, knocking Kaylee out of the open door and onto the raft. A huge glowing tentacle shoots out from the ground and assaults her. She manages to get on top of the car and, finding two gas cans on the rear rack, uses them to set one of the tentacles on fire. Kaylee, Chanda, and Jonah lock themselves in the car as the creature's tentacles bash it. Eventually, the attacks stop; in the silence, Kaylee and Chanda notice that Jonah has died from his injuries.  The two girls fall asleep huddled together. In the morning, the girls are woken by a man tapping on the car window. Kaylee and Chanda note, incredulously, that the creature is gone, and walk across the sand together, traumatized, as the man calls for an ambulance. In a closing shot, the creature, revealed as an enormous jellyfish, is seen in the water, headed towards Santa Monica Pier.