Franny Ellis is an anthropology student doing her PhD thesis work in Morocco. She returns to her home in New York City after finding out that her brother Henry, a musician, is in a coma after getting hit by a car. She moves back in with her mother Karen after several years away. Franny listens to Henry's music and sits in his hospital room. She learns that Henry's favorite musician is British indie singer-songwriter James Forester and then attends James' concert, as he is touring in the area. Afterwards, she meets James and tells him about Henry. Franny starts to read Henry's journal and visit places that he goes to. James visits Franny and Henry at the hospital and plays a song for them. That night, Franny and James hang out. James says that his first album was successful but then he has not been able to write any new music since. Franny says that she and Henry had a fight about him pursuing music as a career and that she feels guilty because of it. They listen to live music. Franny buys a keyboard and a gramophone and takes them to the hospital. In Henry's room, she starts playing music and bringing over pancakes that he likes.  Franny and Karen celebrate Henry's half-birthday at the hospital, and James joins them. Franny and Karen argue about Franny not keeping in touch. Franny goes to James' concert that night, and afterwards, they have sex. They go out and record a song called "Afraid of Heights". The following night, James hangs out with Franny and Karen at their house. Franny and James go to a club and dance. The next day, James joins Franny and Henry at the hospital. James starts playing a new song, and Henry opens his eyes before closing them again. Henry then wakes up completely the next day. It is James' last day in the United States before he goes home. Franny tries to attend James' concert that night, but it is sold out. She watches him perform his new song on a television screen and then goes to his car. After the concert is over, James walks to his car and finds a CD there. It is a recording of him and Franny performing "Afraid of Heights". He listens to the song in his car as Franny also listens to it on her way home.