In Drake Industries Research Lab in Hawaii, two creatures – Dinocroc and Supergator – are being studied.  However, Supergator breaks free from the lab and eats two scientists before escaping into the water. Dinocroc also breaks free by breaking the wall and crushing another scientist. It also eats two scientists and goes into the trees. Jason Drake calls an elite mercenary group to kill the creatures, but they are killed by Dinocroc. Drake then calls in Fish & Game hunter Bob Logan who is also known as "the Cajun" to kill the two creatures.  While spying on Drake's lab, Paul Beaumont meets a wildlife officer, Cassidy Swanson. While Drake has his private party, he meets up with a girl named Victoria Chase. Drake tells her to meet up with the Cajun. The Cajun meets with Victoria and they both go on a boat and down the river.  They hear a woman – Kimberly Taft – asking for help, and they help her in the jeep while Dinocroc chases after them. Cassidy and her father attempt to shoot at Supergator. Cassidy's father, Charlie, shoots Supergator's eye, presumably blinding it, and is devoured.  As Supergator eats Charlie, Cassidy gets in the car and drives off. Supergator then chases her all the way to the mill. As Supergator reaches the end of the tunnel, Bob and Paul blow it up with C-4 explosives so Supergator and Dinocroc cannot escape. The two reptiles engage in battle and in the melee the rupture the containers housing the mill's stores of sawdust. The fight continues, in which Dinocroc wins after knocking Supergator on its soft underbelly and attacking it.  Paul then runs forward to get in range so he can throw an explosive to set off all the sawdust. After Dinocroc kills Supergator, it spots Paul and walks towards him, as Paul hides in a trough filled with water, protecting himself from the explosives. The bomb explodes and ignites the sawdust to create a massive fireball, knocking back and killing Dinocroc. Paul is assumed to be killed as well, but he survives the attack. Before Paul and Cassidy leave, the camera then turns to Dinocroc and Supergator, both dead. As Bob, Paul and Cassidy walk away, it shows that in the mill are babies, of either Dinocroc or Supergator – possibly both.