When she was 14, Karen became pregnant and her mother decided for her to give her daughter up for adoption. The decision to give up her child has always haunted her. Ever since, Karen has had difficulty forming connections with people.  Upon meeting laid-back Paco at work, Karen allows her anxiety and mistrust to get the best of her. She is initially hostile and suspicious of his friendliness and interest. Karen gradually calms her anxiety through her growing relationship with Paco, and eventually they get married.   Paco persuades Karen to write a letter to her unknown, adult daughter, and she leaves the letter with the Catholic agency that had arranged the adoption. The letter isn't addressed to any name, as she's not given one, and the person who's meant to file it gets distracted.  Karen's daughter, Elizabeth, grows up to be solitary, willful, and hardhearted. She is hired as an attorney at a prestigious law firm headed by Paul. They have an affair and, although Elizabeth had her tubes tied at 17, she becomes pregnant. She quits without informing Paul of her condition and moves to a new apartment and a new job.   Some months pass, and Elizabeth is seen by one of Paul's daughters but denies the baby is his. Paul stops by, offering to drop a new relationship he's in to become a proper couple, which she declines. However, he does convince her to leave a letter for her biological mother with the adoption agency.  Lucy is a baker who longs to be a mother, but she cannot have children of her own. She and her husband, Joseph, contact the same adoption agency and they meet with a young pregnant, prospective mother. After a protracted interview period, the mother agrees to give the couple her baby.   Shortly before she gives birth, Joseph reveals that he really wants to have his own biological child and he and Lucy separate, but Lucy plans to go ahead with the adoption alone. However, the birth mother changes her mind shortly after giving birth, and Lucy is devastated by the news.   Elizabeth dies while giving birth to her child. Since no one steps forward to claim the baby, the agency offers the baby to Lucy, who adopts her. At first, Lucy is overwhelmed by the demands of being a new mother and complains about it bitterly to her mother, who sets her straight.   One year later, Karen finds out about Elizabeth's death and her letter, which had been misplaced, informing her that she has a granddaughter named Ella. The agency arranges a meeting and Karen meets the little girl and Lucy, who live a short distance away in her own neighborhood.