Two years after the events of the first film, Nick Persons has married Suzanne and moved her children, Kevin and Lindsey into his apartment and bought a Berger Picard pet dog and named it Coco.  While getting ready for an interview with Magic Johnson to launch a sports magazine, Suzanne tries telling Nick that she is pregnant. Later, during breakfast, Suzanne tells Nick about buying a 3-bedroom apartment right from their neighbours. Suzanne then reveals her pregnancy and later finds out that they will be having twins.   Needing more space, they try to move to the country and meet Chuck Mitchell Jr., a charming but deceiving local real estate agent/contractor. After some persuasion Nick decides to buy the house & the family pack up their things and moves into the house. Lindsey is against the move because she is far away from her friends, has no cell phone reception, and because there are no cute boys. Unfortunately it turns out that Nick failed to get the house inspected first and everybody scolds him as they soon find a mould infestation. While trying to resolve the mould issue, Chuck discovers even more problems with the house, and Nick becomes angry with him as he almost destroys it trying to fix them all while also being scolded by Suzanne and the kids after Nick goes fishing.  Meanwhile, Lindsey, still wanting to be treated like an adult, falls in love with one of Chuck's employees, Danny Pulu, a young adult and the youngest of the Pulu family, who is as equally smitten with her. One night, Nick finds Lindsey's bedroom door wide open and suggests she's left the house, so he asks Kevin where she is and reveals that she went to a party at Danny's house. After finding her dancing with Danny, Nick grounds her while firing the Pulu brothers, causing her to be resentful enough that she ignores him the next day.  When Nick gets a voicemail about an executive trying to move on with his idea if he can't get Magic Nick finally decides to fire Chuck after he tells him that the house needs a whole new foundation during a yoga exercise where Suzanne scolds Nick for forgetting their practice from being busy working with the house. When Chuck reveals that he knew that there was more work to be done with the house, Nick tells Chuck to leave the house, which causes all those working on the house to quit out of loyalty to Chuck.   After everybody leaves Suzanne scolds Nick again and tells him that he'll need to hire Chuck back but Nick refuses and tries to sell the house again to move back to his Condo in the city. During their argument, Nick finally stands his ground and calls her out for her naivety while also yelling that he wouldn't be in this situation if it weren't for her and the kids. Needing some time to think, Suzanne then proclaims that she and the kids will be staying in the guest house until she cools down.  After taking some time to think, Nick decides to fix the house on his own after talking with Kevin while fishing. Lindsey apologises and promises to truly act mature from then on and also to apologize to Chuck, especially when he is told that his wife, a famous country singer, died a few years ago. Chuck responds by bringing his friends back to help including Kevin, Lindsey, and Danny, whose brothers force to apologise about the party.  After finishing the house Nick tries to apologise however Suzanne is in the middle of having contractions and starts going into labour. The family tries to go to the hospital but since the hospital is half an hour away and the babies are coming quickly, Nick, Kevin, and Lindsey have to deliver the babies. Chuck tries to get there, but his truck breaks down and he is forced to power walk down to the house. While she's still in labour, Nick gets a call from Magic Johnson. After Suzanne gives birth to identical twin boys, the movie ends six months later with a big BBQ in their backyard, at which Nick debuts his new magazine titled Are We Done Yet?, based on his experience building the house.