Maya's hive is thrilled when they are invited to compete in the Honey Games in Buzztropolis after a poor harvest, but the catch is they must contribute half of their honey.  At the Games, Maya meets Violet, a competitor and Master Beegood's daughter. Maya convinces the Empress to allow her hive to fully participate, but Willy accidentally spills honey on the Empress, causing trouble. Maya makes a wager: if her team wins, all is forgiven; if they lose, all of her hive's honey is taken. On day one, Maya's team performs poorly but does not come in last.  On day two, the teams have to race up a tree to a flag. Maya, desperate to win, abandons her teammates. Violet's team places second, while Maya's team comes in third. Maya is rejected by her team for her selfishness and lack of leadership. She apologizes to her team and vows not to disappoint or leave them like that again.  In the evening, Violet invites Maya and Willy to dinner, then bullies Maya and frames her for being mean, and gets Beegood to be on her side. Maya flies off, upset. Maya's team improves and prepares for the next challenge. On the final day, the teams navigate a maze without waking a tortoise. Maya's team wins, and Violet's team comes second. Maya and Violet race down a thorny hill, and Maya accidentally knocks over the Honey Cup. Maya is expelled from the games. Maya wanders off and finds Flip, and tells him why she is upset, and what had happened. Flip tells Maya to be responsible for her actions and admit what she did wrong. Inspired by Flip's advice, Maya reconciles with her team.  On the last day, Maya goes out and tells the Empress that she is sorry for breaking the cup. Maya is given a second chance by onlookers, and the Empress reluctantly agrees. Beegood tries to sabotage Maya's team by telling Violet about a secret tunnel her team can take to reach the finish line faster. During the race, Maya's team finds the goal, while Violet's team is in danger from the tunnel, as there was a spider that Beegood did not know about, which ends with Violet's team being trapped in a spiderweb. Maya's team helps Violet's team and both teams cross the finish line together. Violet admits to cheating and apologizes to Maya. The Empress is shocked but the Queen stands up for Maya. The Empress declares Maya's team the winners and forgives her.  At the after-party, everyone dances and enjoys themselves, including Maya, Violet, and Willy.