John Harrison (Alex Kendrick) is a basketball coach at a high school and married to Amy (Shari Rigby).  Due to the manufacturing plant being moved to another city, all of the good basketball players, along with their families, must move also.  School Principal Olivia Brooks (Priscilla Shirer) tells John that the school is losing several teachers and coaches and that she needs him to coach cross country, as she doesn’t want the school to lose another program.  At the tryouts for cross country, only one student shows up.  Nevertheless, John agrees to be the running coach for Hannah Scott (Aryn Wright-Thompson), who is asthmatic.  Hannah lives with her grandmother, Barbara Scott (Denise Armstrong), who has been telling her all her life that both her parents are dead.  Hannah also steals items from students at school and has a collection of them.  One day, on his hospital visits to help the pastor, John accidentally enters the room of Thomas Hill (Cameron Arnett).  Hill is blind and suffering from diabetic complications.  Hill also had been a cross country runner. After a couple of visits to see Hill, John finds out that Hill is Hannah's father.  Hill abandoned Hannah and her mother when Hannah was a baby and Barbara has been trying to protect her from being hurt by him again, albeit by lying to Hannah about him.  John also later finds out that the principal was Hannah's mother's friend and has been paying her tuition fees.  John tells Hannah about her father and he and Amy take her to meet him.  Though reluctant at first, she eventually accepts him and starts visiting him more.  Through the process she discovers herself and also strengthens her Christian faith and her belief in Jesus Christ as her Heavenly father.  Hannah returns all of the stolen items and practices rigorously.  Barbara finds out about her visits to her father and angrily confronts John and Amy over letting Hannah meet her father without discussing it with her.  She threatens legal action until she is chastised by Hannah for lying to her all this time.  John, Amy, and Barbara then each go to God in prayer about the situation, each asking Him for forgiveness and guidance.  On the day of the State Championship race, John gives Hannah ear buds and a player.  John tells her to play the player as the race begins.  Through the race, Hannah hears her father's voice of coaching and encouragement, leading her to win the race and become the state champion.  Later, Hill passes away.  A couple of years later, Hannah tells her story to her cross country friends.  Then Hannah puts a flash drive in the player and runs through the city while listening to the recording from her father which begins with "It's your 21st birthday".