By the end of each summer, children from the fundamentalist Catholic community in the suburbs of New Jersey visited Camp Hope. Deep in the woods, away from civilization, the children are taught the ways of cult-like Christianity, the temptations of the flesh, and the horror of Satan. The head priest, who teaches the children these doctrines of fundamentalist Catholicism, has unknowingly brought evil with him by solely focusing on sin instead of salvation. The priest fills these young minds with the belief that everything they do is an occasion of sin. He delves deep into their psyche asking them things like whether or not they masturbate, because masturbation, according to the Catholic Church, is the same as premarital sex and gives the devil a foothold in their hearts and minds. The priest also goes so far as to call a girl at the camp a whore simply because she was talking to a male member of the camp. These psychological attacks take their toll, and the presence of a demon starts to creep into the minds of the children, especially the main character, Tommy Leary.  Tommy's grandfather had recently died and the afterlife is very much on his mind. At the same time, his innocent relationship with his childhood crush slowly becomes more physical until the two escape into the woods for a sexual encounter. Melissa, his crush, is caught and sent home, allowing the priest to focus on Tommy. The priest takes Tommy down a psychological and spiritual path that makes the presence of the demon real to him, and it begins to haunt him.  The movie ends with Tommy, after a confrontation with the priest and a near suicide attempt, denouncing his faith in the God he was being taught about and goes on a different path. The priest, after his emotionally brutal encounter with Tommy in his cabin, suffers a stroke. The members of the community struggle over whether to pull the plug, hoping for a miracle, while the priest spends the rest of his life in a persistent vegetative state, eyes wide open, with a look of horror on his face.  On the way home from the hospital, Tommy finds a note given to him earlier by Melissa telling him when he can to find her and be with her.  As the car drives on, he opens the window and throws out the copy of Dante's Inferno, which falls open on the road to a picture of a demon.