Robert McCall, a former U.S. Marine and Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) officer, now lives a quiet life in Boston, where he works at a hardware store. He helps his colleague Ralphie train to become a security guard. Unable to sleep, Robert often spends late nights reading at an all-night diner. Over time, he has befriended Teri, a teenager sex trafficked by the Russian mafia. The pair often talk about the books he has been reading and Robert’s goal to read the one hundred books his wife had made a goal of reading.   One evening, Teri shares that her real name is Alina and that she dreams of becoming a singer. Robert and Alina take a stroll but Alina’s pimp Slavi abruptly arrives, severely beats Alina, and forces her into a car. His driver hands Robert a business card for their escort service before driving away. A few nights later, a badly injured Alina is admitted to the intensive care unit at a nearby hospital. Upon hearing the news, Robert travels there and learns from her friend Mandy, another prostitute, that Slavi is responsible for her condition. He finds Slavi and his men at their restaurant and is bluntly refused when he offers to buy Alina's freedom. Robert expertly kills the men and leaves. Unbeknownst to him, Slavi and his men were part of a much larger syndicate led by Russian oligarch Vladimir Pushkin. Teddy Rensen, Pushkin's enforcer, arrives in Boston to investigate the attack. Aided by Boston Police Department detectives on Pushkin's payroll, he canvases rival gangs in the area, nearly beating Irish mob lieutenant "Little John" Looney to death to send a message.  Robert continues exacting vigilante justice on criminals he encounters. He blackmails two corrupt police officers into returning racketeering money to Ralphie's mother, and beats a gunman with a hammer after he robs the hardware store, taking a coworker's heirloom ring from her mother. Teddy kills Mandy after learning that she concealed information about Robert and lied about her friendship with Alina. He visits Robert at his apartment, posing as a police detective, but Robert does not fall for the guise. Teddy flashes a picture of the strangled Mandy before walking away, offering it as a warning. Teddy and his mercenary group fail to abduct Robert on two occasions. Robert travels to visit his former DIA colleague Susan Plummer and her husband, Brian. Until now, it was long assumed that Robert had died in a long-ago bombing incident. He asks for Susan's help in identifying Teddy. She informs him of Pushkin's operation and that Teddy's real name is Nicolai Itchenko, a Spetsnaz operative turned Russian secret police agent. She also reveals that Nicolai murdered two of the Boston PD detectives and that another one of them, Frank Masters, had not been heard from in days.  Robert tracks Masters down and threatens him into helping take down one of Pushkin's money laundering warehouses. Masters and Pushkin's men are taken into custody when the police arrive, and they find a note left by Robert to "follow the money." He confronts Nicolai again, threatening to do more damage if he continues to pursue him. He later destroys two of Pushkin's oil tankers. In response, Nicolai abducts Robert's coworkers at the hardware store to force him to meet. To Nicolai's surprise, Robert skips the meeting with Nicolai and instead kills the men guarding the hostages. Nicolai arrives with his men, but Robert stealthily annihilates all of them one by one with improvised weapons collected throughout the hardware store. As Nicolai is about to kill Ralphie, who stayed behind to help, Robert kills Nicolai with a nail gun.  Three days later, Robert finds Pushkin at his Moscow mansion, killing all his guards and tricking him into electrocuting himself to death. Sometime later, following her recovery, Alina runs into Robert and shares that she has started a new life with the money that was left at her hospital bed, money she believes to be hush money. She has no idea it was from Robert. Inspired to continue helping others, Robert posts online ads as The Equalizer.