The film claims to be based on a true story.  Chris, one of the two main characters, is shown standing on a beach, when suddenly we fast forward and see him being wheeled into an operating room. Rewinding to an earlier decade, to the story of Jorge, a child playing soccer falls unconscious and then undergoes an operation on his lungs. The doctor tells his parents that he will probably not live to the age of 20 and should not exert himself.   At college, Chris bumps into Samantha (Sam) twice and starts helping her with her "safety buddies" program. A now 30-year-old Jorge meets Leslie, a flight attendant on his flight. He is the son of the Cuban owner of the rum brand Bolivar. While spending time with Jorge in Hawaii, Leslie asks him about his cough and scar and he tells her about his condition off-screen. Jorge later proposes to Leslie.   Chris, before taking his driving test, fills out a form at the DMV indicating his willingness to be an organ donor. He tells Sam that she must go on a date with him if he passes the test, so they have their first date that night. Sam meets Chris' family during Easter break. Jorge and Leslie get married, without his parents, who disapprove of their son marrying an American woman.  While hanging out with Sam and his two best friends in the dorm, Chris suddenly falls and loses consciousness, and he is next being wheeled into the operating room as in the opening scene. Later, a doctor comes into his room, where Sam and Chris' parents and brother are present.   When Chris wakes up, he tells Sam he wants to ask her something and we then see their wedding. At this point, Chris, the narrator, mentions that years earlier Jorge and Leslie lived a life similar to that of him and Sam but that there were some painful differences. Leslie is shown crying next to a baby crib while Sam is shown to be pregnant. A doctor tells Jorge and Leslie that they can't have children. Chris and Sam go to Lamaze classes together, while Jorge's cough gets worse. Jorge is shown with an oxygen tank, while Chris and Sam are shown with their baby. A doctor tells Jorge and Leslie that a matching lung has been found, so he is wheeled into surgery.  Chris is promoted to lieutenant firefighter and arrives home to share the news with Sam and their son. As the narrator, he says that this is not what actually happened, and the film returns to him being wheeled into the operating room.   The next morning, the doctor informs Chris' family that he is braindead and that they have found suitable recipients in need of heart, lungs, liver, pancreas, kidneys and eyes, which Chris can donate. The receivers of the organs are shown getting their phone calls. Chris' family is met by his friends who are holding a candlelight vigil in front of the hospital.   Jorge comes to after the transplant and asks, "Who is in here breathing for me?" Leslie answers, "An angel, that is all we know." Chris' funeral is then shown. Jorge insists on knowing who his donor was, so he sends a letter of gratitude. Chris' parents send a response, then they and Sam meet with Jorge and Leslie.   The final scene shows Chris on the beach as in the opening scene, looking towards Jorge and Leslie's yacht with Sam and his parents on it.