Fire and Rescue Crew 7 of Prescott, Arizona, superintended by Eric Marsh, responds to a wildfire. Arriving on scene, Eric predicts that the fire will threaten a local neighborhood, but is stood down by the assigned hotshot superintendent. Eric's prediction comes true, leading to him venting his frustration to fire chief and close friend Duane Steinbrink that when the next wildfire threatens Prescott, his crew will not be allowed to fight it directly, as they lack hotshot certification. Eric asks for his help in obtaining his crew's evaluation which comes from Prescott Mayor Worthington who gives Eric until the end of the fire season to get and pass his evaluation.  Meanwhile, a 21-year old outcast named Brendan McDonough learns that his ex-girlfriend Natalie is pregnant with his child. Natalie however forbids Brendan from seeing her. Brendan is later arrested for larceny, which prompts his mother to evict him from her house. Determined to provide support for his newborn daughter, Brendan interviews with Eric, who gives him a chance. The crew are finally given an evaluation during a wildfire deployment. Eric briefs his crew on how they plan to stop the fire but is criticized by their evaluator, Hayes, who Eric bluntly disregards. Despite Hayes' concerns, the fire is halted by Eric's strategy, and the crew are made into the Granite Mountain Hotshots.  The crew's season becomes much more demanding as Granite Mountain are deployed across the country. Brendan is accepted by Natalie and is allowed to see his daughter. After being bitten by a rattlesnake during a fire in Prescott, Brendan approaches Eric about transferring to structural firefighting. Eric snaps at Brendan, stating that nobody on the structure side would hire an ex-con like him. Eric later has an argument with his wife Amanda, who has long resented Eric's obsession with his job and placing his wife's desire to start a family with him on indefinite hold. After a heart to heart with Duane, Eric returns to Amanda, announcing that he is ready to settle down.  The Granite Mountain Hotshots are called to the Yarnell Hill Fire; on the way, Eric announces to his Captain, Jesse Steed that he will step down as superintendent after this season and offers Jesse his job if he wants it. Eric also apologizes to Brendan for snapping at him and promises that he will help him as much as he can to ensure his transfer. The crew assembles a controlled burn, but is doused mistakenly by an airtanker. Sending Brendan as lookout, the remaining crew moves to find another suitable location. The wind suddenly shifts, and the fire jumps a trigger point. Brendan is rescued by another hotshot crew whilst the others relocate to a safe zone, but the fire moves too fast and is too intense to tackle safely.  The wind picks up again, jumping Granite Mountain's safe zone; cutting them off from escape. Clearing a small site quickly, Eric attempts to douse the blaze with an overhead airtanker, but it misses the drop zone. The crew deploys under their fire shelters as the fire sweeps over them. Brendan listens into the radio traffic, and is devastated when a call finally comes in from the first responders who arrive at their shelters; all 19 of his crewmates have perished. Though the information is treated sensitively, rumors flare amongst the devastated families of what has happened. Brendan, being the sole survivor demands to meet with them at the gather point at Prescott Middle School. Upon arriving, the families worst fears are confirmed, with Brendan suffering a psychological breakdown due to survivors guilt.  Three years later, Brendan takes his daughter to a juniper tree Granite Mountain had earlier saved, now adorned with the crewmembers memorabilia and photographs. The ending credits detail that the film is dedicated to the lives lost at the Yarnell Hill Fire, being the largest loss of firefighters since the September 11th attacks, as well as photos of the actual Granite Mountain crewmembers.