The Heffleys dine at a family restaurant called Corny's, with Greg's best friend, Rowley Jefferson, joining them. There, Susan announces the family plan for a road trip to attend Meemaw's 90th birthday party, much to Rodrick and Greg's dismay. Greg is then sent to rescue Manny from inside a tube in the play area, with Rowley's help, but ends up in a ball pit with a diaper stuck to his hand and freaking out. He subsequently becomes famous when the footage is posted on the Internet, becoming and creating an embarrassing meme called "Diaper Hands". Later, Greg learns that the Player Expo convention is taking place not far from Meemaw's house in Indianapolis. Greg's favorite gaming star, Mac Digby, will be attending, and he decides to sneak off from the road trip and go there to meet Mac and get in one of his videos to gain popularity (and make sure everyone forgets about "Diaper Hands"), without his parents’ awareness. As soon as the road trip starts, everyone's phones are confiscated by Susan, so she can ensure the trip is "absolutely technology-free".  That night, at a motel, Greg secretly gets his phone from the car. Later, while he and Rodrick are relaxing in a hot tub, Rodrick uncovers his plans to go to the Player Expo. Greg convinces him not to tell Susan, saying that they have a video game drummer competition with a prize of $1000. Liking the idea, Rodrick opts to go with him. Later that night, Greg investigates a loud noise: a couple of kids repeatedly slamming a wheeled cart into a wall, belonging to a family which he dubs "the Beardos" due to the father's beard. Scolding them for making a racket, he threatens to have them thrown out. Their father comes out, and nearly gets hit by the cart his daughter rolls at Greg, but it misses him and damages their van. She blames Greg, telling her father that he also called him a "Fat Beardo", causing him to plot revenge.  On the road, Manny wins a piglet at a fair after guessing the weight of a hog in pounds (which was 456). Mr. Beardo, who is also there with his family, sees Greg and pursues him, but Greg manages to lose him on one of the amusement rides called "Alien Abduction." The next day, a work call and the piglet's craziness lead to the Heffleys nearly crashing their car on a bridge, and they donate the piglet to a petting zoo much to Manny's sadness while Greg reroutes the GPS to the Player Expo. In the hotel room, Rodrick and Greg leave a note telling Frank and Susan that they are buying a gift for Meemaw, but they sneak out to the Player Expo. Thinking they are missing, Susan calls the police but gets them herself after seeing them being interviewed on TV at the expo.  Seeing Mac Digby in a video game competition and not wanting to wait in a long line to play with him, Greg asks Rodrick to record him on the stage behind him, but he accidentally knocks out the power to Mac's screen while sneaking up on stage. Susan arrives and accidentally reveals that Greg is "Diaper Hands", humiliating him in the process. She opens up saying all she wanted was a nice road trip to bring them closer together and accuses him of not caring. Fed up with her being so controlling, Greg calls her out on her hypocrisy and naivety, to which she relents, and gives up on the "technology-free" trip. What makes it worse is that Rodrick accidentally had the phone on the front-facing camera the whole time, ruining Greg's moment with Mac Digby. Back on the road, the tarp on their motorboat blows open and their belongings fly out. The Beardos then show up and begin stealing them in an act Mr. Beardo calls "payback", including a photo album as a gift for Meemaw.  The Heffleys chase the Beardos, but get stuck in a gridlock traffic jam, which they get out of by taking a back road. They come across the Beardos' van at another motel, steal their belongings back, and manage to reach Meemaw's birthday party just in time with Greg in the boat with it detached to the car, and Greg reconciles with Susan. After the party, the car breaks down, though a tow truck driver stops by, but he only speaks Spanish. Manny communicates due to a CD they heard earlier in the trip. He guides them to the petting zoo and retrieves the piglet. In Greg's ending monologue, he states that Frank gets time off from work to be with his family, Rodrick gets money to repair his van and that while the trip was far from perfect, it was eventful and he's excited for next year. Susan steps in to say they will be flying.  In a mid-credits scene, two girls take selfies with Greg, who they recognize as "Diaper Hands".