In 1963, liberal-minded and reckless Lydia Callahan is raising her 14-year-old son, Sam. Lydia's father Caspar, a prominent local businessman, is running for governor of North Carolina, and does not want Lydia and Sam in his way, so the two are banished from North Carolina. They travel across the country and settle in Wyoming, where Lydia only wants to have a good time and refuses to allow Sam to call her "mom."  Sam soon finds out that he is one of only two students in Gro Vont High School who read. The other one is Maurey, a girl the same age as Sam who wants to learn about sex. Consequent to their mutual discoveries, Maurey becomes pregnant. She decides to have an abortion in a distant hospital, and by accident, runs into her mother and the baseball coach who is also there with the same intent.  After that Maurey moves in with Lydia and Sam since her father kicked out from his house. Meanwhile, Hank Elkrunner, a Blackfoot, falls for the feckless Lydia, while her dictatorial dad keeps tabs on them all from afar, during teatime Maurey asks Sam to keep the distance from fathered.  Later in Sam’s bedroom when they’re both in their underwear, Maurey (skinny lingerie and panties) and Sam (tightie whites) and the clothes were hanging on Sam’s bed, Maurey asks Sam to take it off but Sam asks Maurey to go first, and she did removing her top, Maurey then now asks Sam to remove from the bottoms and so he did, he look down a expose his bottoms when Maurey said that he grew bigger, Sam then let Maurey to remove it off, and she did, eventually they both stood naked, that embarrassed Sam and Maurey but she asks Sam to never skip parts and they both embrace together and said sorry to Sam.  In the end, Maurey decides not to have an abortion and keeps the baby, a little girl named Shannon. After being threatened to be financially cut off unless she breaks up with Hank, and lets Sam go to military school, Lydia decides to stay with Hank, and takes a job at the local diner. In addition, Hank sells his trailer and moves in with Sam and Lydia, along with Maurey and Shannon who decide to permanently move in. The film ends with Sam finishing the flashback for the story, with Shannon nearby.  Throughout the film, Sam has many dream fantasies wherein Drew Barrymore serves as the subject of his fantasies.