A successful Manhattan couple, lawyer Paul Morgan and real estate agent Meryl Morgan are separated due to Paul's infidelity. After dinner one night, Meryl and Paul witness the murder of one of Meryl's real estate clients. As a result, they become targets of contract killer Vincent and must enter the Witness Protection Program.  Paul and Meryl are relocated to the small town of Ray, Wyoming, and placed temporarily under the protection of husband and wife/sheriff and deputy Clay and Emma Wheeler. For their own safety, they are permitted no outside contact by telephone or e-mail. They have trouble adjusting to small-town life, but after a perilous encounter with a bear and awkward attempts at shooting rifles, chopping wood, and horseback riding, they eventually adjust and begin assisting the local citizens professionally. Meanwhile, neither of their assistants back in New York City know their whereabouts. Meryl secretly calls the adoption agency she's been trying to adopt through to let them know she won't be able to go through with the adoption. Vincent plants a bug at Meryl's office and in her assistant Jackie's purse, hoping to gain information, which is eventually successful when Jackie hears from the adoption agency that Meryl called and what number she used.  Jackie attempts to call Meryl but Paul's assistant Adam stops her by kissing her, which she responds to by tasering him and then apologizing, and suggesting that he take her on a date the next day. Paul and Meryl go on a "date" in town and begin to reconcile, discussing the stress of infertility that led to their relationship deteriorating and Paul's subsequent infidelity. They get back together, but then Paul is heartbroken when he learns that Meryl had a one-night stand with one of their acquaintances during their separation. The next day, with Vincent in town unbeknownst to them, the Morgans anticipate leaving Ray for a permanent hiding place. The Wheelers invite them to a rodeo, but the Morgans are at loggerheads, so they decline. Leaving the Morgans without any form of security, the Wheelers leave for the rodeo. Vincent tries to attack the house but is accosted by a bear, which gives the Morgans time to escape. They flee on horseback to the rodeo to seek help. Vincent follows them to the rodeo where they spot him and hide in a bull suit. However, they end up in the ring with a bull, which then charges them, injuring Meryl. Meryl, unable to walk, stays hidden from Vincent while Paul impulsively confronts him with a canister of bear repellent spray. Paul accidentally sprays himself in the face, alerting Vincent who then holds Paul at gun-point. The Morgans are rescued by the Wheelers and their new friends from the town.  Six months later, Jackie and Adam are in a committed relationship while Paul and Meryl have repaired their marriage. They have an adopted baby girl from China, named Rae in honor of the Wyoming town, and Meryl is pregnant with their biological child living happily together in New York City.