Ted Jargenson, a city maintenance employee, is checking on a remote roadside pipe when he is attacked and killed by several hungry  lampreys. Roughly a week later, Michael Parker, his wife Cate, daughter Nicole and son Kyle move to the small lakeside town for the summer, as Michael is tasked with controlling the lamprey population in Lake Charlevoix. Meeting the local fish and wildlife department, consisting of Will, Rich, and Marcy, Michael learns that these lampreys are particularly hungry and seem to be feeding aggressively on the fish population, effectively destroying it. The mayor, Bruce Akerman, demands that Michael fix the problem within a day so that no tourist revenue is lost to the town.  Soon, the lampreys begin feeding on people, first attacking Rich when he sets out on the lake to try to get a lamprey count. His body is found and brought to the morgue where lampreys burst from his chest cavity and kill the coroner, before they escape into the pipes and infiltrate the water system. Despite this, Mayor Akerman still refuses to shut down the lake and Michael talks to the press himself. When Mayor Akerman sees this, he gets Michael fired by calling a favor in with Michael's boss.  Meanwhile, Michael and Cate's flirtatious summer neighbor Ellen invites her pool boy Alex over to clean her pool. She intends to seduce him by surprising him in the pool when he gets there. Alex has coincidentally started a summer fling with Nicole and invites her with him to Ellen's house, having been told that Ellen will be out running errands. After arriving, the two discover Ellen's body in the pool being devoured by lampreys. Cate hears their screams and runs next door and call the police. An officer arrives and he's promptly eaten by the lampreys in the pool, which allows Cate, Nicole, and Alex to escape.  The lampreys attack the town en masse, through pipes and any water sources outside. Cate and Nicole go to rescue young Kyle (who went to the beach earlier as lampreys begin attacking) while Alex goes to check on his own family. Mayor Ackerman is also killed during this time by a lamprey that enters his body as he sits on the toilet. Will convinces Michael to help him despite being fired and they witness Marcy being attacked and killed by lampreys. They plan to shut down the main water system before the lampreys can escape into Lake Michigan and discover several dead throughout town including the mayor.  They encounter Cate and Nicole, who are busy trying to rescue Kyle from an attic storage area where he's barricaded himself. They succeed once Alex shows up with a ladder and everyone is able to escape the town. They resolve to use the bio salts from the dead lamprey's livers to lure the live ones to the main water plant where they can electrocute them. They eventually succeed in their plan of electrocuting all the lampreys at the main power plant but Will is lost to the lampreys. As the town cleans up and Michael and his family leave, having seemingly solved the crisis, a lamprey attacks a member of the cleanup crew.