In 1956, 12-year-old Alabama native Lewellen lives in poverty with her stern, religious grandmother, who has taken it upon herself to raise the girl, as Lewellen's father, Lou, cannot provide her stability. Lou struggles with alcoholism, though he tries his best to make Lewellen happy, such as gifting her an Elvis Presley vinyl record. He even tries to provide a motherly figure for Lewellen by dating a mysterious woman, Ellen, who promised one night to rescue Lewellen from life in the rural South should her relationship with her father fall apart. Ellen is later revealed to be Lewellen's maternal aunt and Grannie's estranged daughter.  Lewellen finds consolation in playing with her best friend Buddy, idling away her last preteen summer with typical outdoor rural pastimes such as swimming in the pond and exploring the woods. Lewellen and Buddy make a new friend, Grasshopper, who is spending the summer with her grandparents. Lewellen begins to idolize Elvis, even more so after she learns he is coming to Alabama for a concert. Lewellen finds that singing Elvis' music is a way to channel her trauma into something constructive and creative. Charles acts as a mentor, imparting wisdom of his snake handler religion to explain this to Lewellen, in other words, how to create something positive out of something venomous and deadly.  Ellen leaves after Lou assaults her, pretending she doesn't know who Lewellen is after her car is towed. Lou is struck by lightning while mowing the lawn, leaving him mentally handicapped, but the thought of Elvis coming to town gives Lewellen the resolve to carry on despite her circumstances. Buddy tells Lewellen that the local milkman, Wooden's Boy, has an Elvis ticket and is willing to give it to her if she does her Elvis dance for him. Just as Lewellen starts singing and dancing, Wooden's Boy tells her to take off her clothes. Lewellen questions doing such an act, but agrees to do so after Buddy tells her it is part of the deal. Once Lewellen finishes, Wooden's Boy unzips his trousers and rapes her while a horrified Buddy looks away.  The assault causes severe emotional trauma for Lewellen that manifests as an illness. During church service, Buddy and Grasshopper laugh at Lewellen, causing her to walk out. Subsequently, Buddy breaks his promise to Lewellen by taking Grasshopper to see Elvis instead. Charles and Grannie are distressed by Lewellen's sudden decline in health, and in fits of feverish illness, she hallucinates being attacked by venomous snakes. Ellen returns to town to take Lewellen with her, but Grannie threatens to kill her if she comes back. Later that day, Charles discovers Ellen has been bitten by a rattlesnake and nurses her back to health.   Charles overhears Wooden's Boy bragging to Buddy about what he did to Lewellen. Enraged, Charles resolves to help Lewellen reclaim her voice by encouraging her to sing "Hound Dog". An emotional Lewellen struggles to sing, but she manages to pull through and reduces Charles and his bandmates to tears. The next morning, Lewellen finds a puppy abandoned on the road, whom she shows to Ellen. Lewellen bids farewell to her father and grandmother and departs with Ellen for a new life.