Jackie is a recovering alcoholic moving into Havenhurst, an old gothic apartment complex in New York City run by Eleanor Mudgett and her son Ezra, who serves as the building's maintenance man. Jackie is warned that she must remain sober while living there or she will be evicted.  Jackie begins looking for evidence about her friend, previous Havenhurst tenant Danielle, unaware that she was brutally murdered along with her addict boyfriend Jason after receiving an eviction notice. Jackie meets some of the building's residents, notably a young teen named Sarah, who lives with her foster parents Tammy, a waitress who works nights,  and Wayne, an abusive alcoholic. She later hears a neighbor, Paula, being murdered because she returned to prostitution. Jackie reports the incident to a detective friend, Tim Crawford.  She discovers an incomplete map that Danielle created before her death. The map shows that the building is far larger than it appears, as it has several secret rooms. Sarah gives Jackie Danielle's camera, which contains film that Jackie develops. Sarah is later attacked by Wayne, who is abducted by Eleanor's other son Jed. Jed is a serial killer that has been using the secret rooms to hide his crimes. He is the one murdering those who have been served eviction notices. Tammy becomes one of Jed's victims. After discovering their apartment covered in blood, Jackie tries to show Tim the apartment as proof, only for it to have been cleaned prior to his arrival. She decides to start drinking in order to receive an eviction notice and discover the building's secrets.  Jackie and Sarah, who is now living with her, discover a secret passage in the laundry room that leads to a room containing records showing that Eleanor and her children are descendants of serial killer H. H. Holmes and have inherited his murderous disposition. They are discovered by the murderous family and chased throughout the building, unable to leave. Jackie calls Tim for help but Sarah is captured. She manages to rescue Sarah and help her escape the building but is captured herself and presumably murdered.  Tim arrives shortly after with several police officers but is unable to do anything as there is no visible evidence that the disappearances are sinister in nature. Eleanor convinces Sarah to join her family (with all that entails), and Sarah agrees.