Parker is a  professional thief who is asked by his mentor Hurley to take charge of a job with a crew he doesn't know, consisting of Melander, Carlson, Ross, and Hardwicke. They succeed in robbing the Ohio State Fair, but Hardwicke alters part of Parker's plan, resulting in an unnecessary death. Enraged about the killing, Parker refuses to participate in a jewel robbery they offer. Needing his share of the Ohio loot to finance the bigger job anyway, Melander tells Hardwicke to kill Parker and they leave him on the side of the road. Parker survives and is picked up by farmers. After escaping from the hospital, Hurley directs Parker to New Orleans, where Hardwicke's brother tells him the crew are in Palm Beach, Florida.  Hurley tries to convince Parker to take his own money and leave the issue alone to protect him and his daughter Claire (who is also Parker's girlfriend) from retribution brought by Hardwicke's uncle Danzinger, a mob boss in Chicago. Parker refuses. Danzinger's hitman tries to capture Claire, but she escapes. Parker goes to Palm Beach and masquerades as a rich Texas oil baron named Parmitt looking for an expensive house. Real estate agent Leslie Rodgers shows him a supposedly vacant home recently purchased by someone named Rodrigo, which piques his interest. Leslie is a struggling divorcee, who asks Parker on a date, but he declines. When she checks his credit she finds his identity (obtained from one of Hurley's connections) is phony.  Desperate for money and a way out of her mother's condo, Leslie offers her help. When Parker tells her the next job is a jewel heist, Leslie says there is a jewel auction nearby. The hitman finds Parker and attacks him in his hotel, but Parker throws him from the balcony and escapes. A cop comes to Leslie's condo asking about Parmitt and the altercation (since she showed him houses). During the conversation, Leslie finds a bleeding Parker on her porch. She gets the cop to leave, promising him a list of the places she showed "Parmitt".  Despite his injuries, Parker insists on carrying out his revenge against Melander's crew that night.  Melander and his crew enter the auction to set up speakers rigged with fireworks. Later, they enter as a fire team and steal the jewels, escaping by boat. Parker waits for them at their house; earlier, he broke in and planted guns and damaged their weapons' firing pins. When they return, he prepares to attack, but Leslie also arrives and is captured by Melander. With the help of one of his planted guns and the bent firing pins, Leslie and Parker manage to kill the entire crew. Parker gives Leslie the jewels for safe keeping and tells her he will find a way to fence them in the future. He subsequently kills Danzinger in Chicago, mails Leslie her cut a year and a half later and sends money to the farmers who saved him.