Julia Banks is questioned by police after the body of her abusive ex-boyfriend Michael Vargas is found in her home. Despite Julia’s restraining order against Michael, Detective Pope reveals intimate messages and photos from her on Michael’s phone, along with her underwear found in his car.  Six months earlier, Julia moves in with her fiancé David Connover and his daughter Lily, and struggles with the constant presence of Tessa, David's ex-wife and Lily’s mother. Controlling and obsessive, Tessa is not coping with the end of her marriage, exacerbated by her equally cold and demanding mother, Helen-(nicknamed "Lovey"). Stealing Julia’s phone, Tessa accesses her private photos and information, including her recently expired restraining order. She sets up a Facebook account posing as Julia, using it to reach out to Michael. She also steals David’s watch, Julia’s engagement ring, and a pair of her panties, sending the watch and panties to Michael.  Determined to remove Julia from her life, Tessa anonymously sends her flowers, making David suspect Julia is having an affair. Lily wanders away from Julia at a farmer’s market into the arms of Tessa, who lies to make Julia seem unfit to watch her daughter. At riding practice, Tessa tries to force a frightened Lily to ride an unruly horse, but Julia takes Lily home, humiliating Tessa in front of Lovey. Tessa cuts Lily’s long hair as punishment, leading to a heated argument with Julia. As David arrives, Tessa throws herself down the stairs, pretending Julia pushed her. David assures Julia that he loves her, but refuses to see the truth about Tessa.  Julia and her friend Ali discover police records of Tessa’s obsessive and violent tendencies as a child, which led her to burn down her father’s home. As “Julia”, Tessa enjoys sexually explicit messages with Michael, inviting him to visit Julia for sex. Finding the real Julia alone at home, he attacks her, but a badly beaten Julia wounds him with a kitchen knife and escapes. Tessa, waiting outside, stabs Michael in the chest, framing Julia for his murder. Julia is released after being questioned by Detective Pope, who shows David the social media conversations with Michael.  At Tessa's home, David notices her burned gloves in the fireplace and the stolen ring on her finger. He realizes the whole truth, but an enraged Tessa knocks him unconscious with a fireplace poker, and ties him up. Julia arrives, taking Lily to her car, and returns to rescue David but is attacked by Tessa. In the ensuing fight, Tessa is halted by the sight of her bleeding face in a mirror, and by a picture of Lily. As Julia holds her at bay with a knife, Tessa commits suicide by pulling herself onto the blade; dying, she asks Julia not to let Lily remember her like this.  Six months later, David and Julia have married and moved into a new house with Lily. Julia is horrified by the arrival of Lovey, asking to see her granddaughter.