As a young girl, Kate Fitzgerald is diagnosed with acute promyelocytic leukemia, devastating her parents, firefighter Brian and lawyer Sara. As neither parent nor Kate's older brother Jesse are a genetic match, Brian and Sara conceive a savior sister, Anna, through in vitro fertilization. Beginning with the harvest of her umbilical cord at birth, Anna has donated compatible blood and stem cells to Kate, and her life has been full of hospitalizations, growth hormone injections, opioid painkillers, sleeping pills, bleeding, and infections. Sara has no qualms over using Anna's body to treat Kate's, and fully believes Anna is a willing donor. Brian, who is closer to Anna, has his own misgivings. Kate also shares a close relationship with Anna, and secretly feels guilty for the ways in which her illness has affected her siblings - for example, Jesse's dyslexia went unnoticed for years as she received all of her parents' attention, leading his grades to suffer.  When Kate is fifteen, she goes into kidney failure. The 11-year-old Anna is required to donate one of her own, which will severely restrict her quality of life. With Jesse's help, Anna approaches attorney Alexander Campbell with intentions to sue her parents for medical emancipation. Campbell, whose covert epilepsy lends him sympathy to her predicament, decides to take her case pro bono. Representing Anna as her guardian ad litem, he files a suit for partial termination of parental rights. This immediately causes a rift between Anna and Sara, and Brian moves Anna into his fire station to separate them.  Kate begins dating fellow cancer patient Taylor. After attending their hospital's prom for teen patients, they have sex for the first time, only for Taylor to pass away a few days later. A distraught Kate attempts suicide by overdosing on painkillers before Anna stops her.  After Sara is unable to get the suit thrown out, Anna's case proceeds to trial. Shortly before the hearing, Kate requests to go to the beach one last time. Brian obtains permission and discharges her from the hospital for the day. Sara demands that Kate be returned to the hospital, but Brian refuses and threatens to divorce Sara if she does not join them. They all enjoy one final family outing.  At the hearing, Jesse witnesses Sara's aggressive cross-examination of Anna on the stand and forces Anna to confess that she is acting under Kate's wishes, not her own. While Anna had genuinely wanted to donate her kidney, Kate, knowing she would not survive another operation and having endured enough of both her own and her family's suffering, had asked her to refuse. Sara finally acknowledges that Kate is ready to die, and Kate dies in her sleep later that day with her mother by her side.  After Kate's death, Campbell reports that Anna has won the case. Now reconciled, the family moves on with their lives. Sara, who gave up practicing law to look after Kate, returns to work, Brian retires from firefighting and counsels troubled youths, and Jesse enters college. Anna reveals that every year on Kate's birthday, they go to Montana, which was her "most favorite place in the world". She concludes that she was not born merely to save her sister, she was born because she had a sister, and that their relationship continues even in death.