It's Christmastime, Maynard Grieger is a general store owner in Pottersville, a small town, struggling since the local mill closed. Returning home early from work to surprise his wife, Connie, he finds that she is a furry, along with Jack, the sheriff. Connie states that she needs more excitement in her life, and would like some time apart.  After drunkenly returning to his store and telling his story to Parker, his clerk, Maynard dresses up in a gorilla costume and walks around town, startling many of the townspeople. The next morning, he awakes to find he was misidentified as Bigfoot. Intending to confess, Maynard realizes the potential economic benefits from tourism that Bigfoot sightings may bring, so continues to dress up.  As the hype continues to grow about Bigfoot, the town is visited by Brock Masterson, the host of a monster-hunting reality television show. Although he pretends to be finding evidence of Bigfoot for his show, he is privately skeptical of its existence. After encountering Maynard, in costume, Brock becomes scared to continue, and wishes to leave town.  Brock decides to continue his search for Bigfoot, with the help of Jack and Bart, a local hunter. Back in town, Parker discovers that Maynard has been dressing up as Bigfoot, and attempts to dissuade him from dressing up again, for fear that Bart will shoot him. Maynard decides to dress up again anyway, and is captured by Brock.  Brock brings "Bigfoot" back to town, where Parker reveals that it is Maynard in a gorilla suit. Brock announces his intention to sue the town, and the angry townspeople force him to close the store. Parker meets with the townspeople, and shows them that Maynard simply wishes to help the town; his ledger that he ostensibly used to keep an account of their purchases on credit, is left blank.  The townspeople forgive Maynard, and proceed to his store to apologize and pay their debts. Connie forgives him, asking him to take her back, but he refuses. Brock is discovered to be a fraud, and is fired from his television show. Realizing the global interest in Bigfoot, Maynard and Parker reopen the Pottersville Mill as a museum about Bigfoot. As Maynard and Parker kiss, they hear an ominous howl in the distance.