Movie 43 is a series of different, interconnected short films and sketches containing different scenes and scenarios about a washed-up producer as he pitches insane story lines featuring some of the biggest stars in Hollywood.  The Pitch  Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly and written by Rocky Russo, Jeremy Sosenko, and Ricky Blitt  The film is composed of multiple comedy shorts presented through an overarching segment titled "The Pitch", in which Charlie Wessler, a mad screenwriter, is attempting to pitch a script to film executive Griffin Schraeder.  After revealing several of the stories in his script, Wessler becomes agitated when Schraeder dismisses his outrageous ideas, and he pulls a gun on him and forces him to listen to multiple other stories before making Schraeder consult his manager, Bob Mone, to purchase the film.  When they do so, Mone's condescending, humiliating attitude toward Schraeder angers him to the point that, after agreeing to make the film "the biggest film since Howard the Duck", he confronts Mone in the parking lot with a gun and tries to make him perform fellatio on the security guard (Wessler had gotten on the lot by doing the same thing) and kill him if he does not make the film.  Wessler tries to calm Schraeder down with more story ideas to no avail, but Mone pulls out a gun and shoots Schraeder to death. As the segment ends, it is revealed that it is being shot by a camera crew as part of the movie, leading into the final segments.  Cast  Dennis Quaid as Charlie Wessler  Greg Kinnear as Griffin Schraeder  Common as Bob Mone  Charlie Saxton as Jay  Will Sasso as Jerry  Odessa Rae as Danita  Seth MacFarlane as himself  Mike Meldman as himself  Alternative version (The Thread)  Directed by Steven Brill and written by Rocky Russo and Jeremy Sosenko  In some countries, like the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the structure differs. Instead of a pitch, the films are connected by a group of three teenagers searching for the most banned film in the world, Movie 43, which will ultimately lead to the destruction of civilization. Calvin Cutler and his friend J. J. make a video in the style of MTV's Jackass and upload it on YouTube where it instantly reaches over 1,000,000 views. This turns out to be an April Fool's prank from Calvin's younger brother Baxter, who cloned YouTube and hyper-inflated the views while working on his science project.  Calvin and J.J. attempt to get revenge by telling Baxter of a film that's so dangerous it will cause the annihilation of the world. The movie is known as Movie 43. While J.J. and Baxter look for Movie 43 on a Google stand-in, Calvin retrieves Baxter's laptop and loads it with viruses from porn sites, and masturbates to a strip tease video on the porn sites in a bathroom. Baxter finds hundreds of results for Movie 43 on a website referred to by him as a dark corner of the Internet. They find the sketches starting from the 43rd search on the list of results.  As Baxter and J.J. keep watching videos, they are interrupted by Vrankovich and a group of Chinese mobsters wanting to find Movie 43, going so far as to take J.J.'s classmate Stevie Schraeder, film executive Griffin Schraeder's oldest son, hostage. Vrankovich warns them that if they find Movie 43, civilization will be destroyed. They ignore his claims and keep searching, eventually finding the real, Movie 43, which turns out to be from the future, and which shows Baxter as a profane commando, leading a group of recruits to survive after the world has ended.  As Calvin finishes ruining Baxter's laptop, their mother enters, wearing the same shirt and shorts that the woman in the strip tease video wore, causing Calvin to have a mental breakdown, realizing he had masturbated to a video of his mother. Afterward, a deadly earthquake rumbles and mankind is lost. However, a few years later the only survivor, a crippled Calvin, finds Baxter's laptop still working despite the viruses. He watches the last remaining skits on the laptop.  This version of the film was released in the U.S. as part of the Blu-ray Disc of Movie 43 as an unrated alternate cut of the film.  Cast  Mark L. Young as Calvin Cutler  Adam Cagley as J.J.  Devin Eash as Baxter Cutler  Fisher Stevens as Vrankovich/Minotaur  Tim Chou as Chinese Gangster #1  James Hsu as Chinese Gangster #2  Nate Hartley as Stevie Schraeder  Liz Carey as Sitara  Beth Littleford as Mrs. Cutler  Segments  The Catch  Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly, written by Bill O'Malley, Rocky Russo, and Jeremy Sosenko  Single businesswoman Beth goes on a blind date with Davis, the city's most eligible bachelor. When they arrive together at a restaurant, Beth is shocked when he removes his scarf, revealing a pair of testicles dangling from his neck. Over dinner, it confuses her that he fails to acknowledge his anatomical abnormality, and nobody seems to be surprised by it. When two friends of Davis come by, one of them convinces him to give Beth a kiss. Davis agrees, but when he kisses her on the forehead, his neck testicles are dangling near Beth's mouth, causing her to scream and break off the kiss.  Cast  Hugh Jackman as Davis  Kate Winslet as Beth  Roy Jenkins as Ray  Rocky Russo as Waiter Jake  Anna Madigan as Abby  Julie Claire as Pam  Katie Finneran as Angie  Homeschooled  Directed by Will Graham, written by Will Graham & Jack Kukoda  Recently moved in, Sean and Clare have coffee with their new neighbors, Robert and Samantha who have a teenage son, Kevin, whom they home-school. They begin inquiring about the homeschooling, and Robert and Samantha describe how they replicated a full high school experience, going as far as hazing, bullying, ostracizing, and giving out detentions.  To make the experience as awkward as possible, like "real high school," they threw parties that excluded Kevin, Samantha instigated Kevin's "first kiss" and Robert revealed romantic feelings for Kevin. Visibly disturbed, the neighbors end up meeting Kevin, who says he is going out and gives them the impression that all is fine: until he reveals a doll made of a mop with Samantha's face on it, referring to the doll as his girlfriend.  Cast  Jeremy Allen White as Kevin Miller  Liev Schreiber as Robert Miller  Naomi Watts as Samantha Miller  Alex Cranmer as Sean  Julie Ann Emery as Clare  The Proposition  Directed by Steve Carr, written by Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko  Julie and Doug have been in a relationship for a year. When he attempts to propose, she reveals that she is a coprophiliac, asking him to defecate on her in the bedroom. Urged by his best friend Larry and others to go along with it, he eats a large meal and drinks a bottle of laxative prior to the event.  Wanting foreplay, Julie is angered when Doug wants to finish, and she runs into the street. Chasing after her, he is then hit by a car and graphically evacuates his bowels everywhere. She cradles him and apologizes; covered and surrounded by his excrement on the road, she exclaims that it is the "most beautiful thing" she has ever seen and accepts his marriage proposal.  Cast  Anna Faris as Julie (aka Vanessa)  Chris Pratt as Doug (aka Jason)  J. B. Smoove as Larry  Jarrad Paul as Bill  Maria Arcé as Christine  Aaron LaPlante as Friend  Veronica  Directed by Griffin Dunne, written by Matthew Alec Portenoy  Neil is working the night shift at a local grocery store when his ex-girlfriend Veronica comes through his line and they begin arguing. Soon it turns into sexual discussion and flirtation as they lament over their relationship. Unbeknownst to them, Neil's intercom microphone broadcasts the entire explicit conversation throughout the store, where various elderly people and vagrants tune in. After she leaves in tears, the customers agree to cover his shift while he goes after her.  Cast  Kieran Culkin as Neil  Emma Stone as Veronica  Arthur French as Old man  Brooke Davis as Tall lady  Josh Shuman as Short man  iBabe  Directed by Steven Brill, written by Claes Kjellstrom & Jonas Wittenmark & Tobias Carlson and Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko  A developing company is having a meeting in their headquarters over their newly released product, the "iBabe", a life-sized, realistic replica of a nude woman which functions as an MP3 player. The boss listens to his various workers argue over the placement of a fan that was built into the genital region of the iBabe, which is cutting off the penises of teenage boys who attempt to have sex with them. The board members then agree to strongly emphasize the dangers of the product via its new commercials.  Cast  Richard Gere as Boss  Kate Bosworth as Arlene  Jack McBrayer as Brian  Aasif Mandvi as Robert  Darby Lynn Totten as Woman  Marc Ambrose as Chappy  Cathy Cliften as iBabe #1  Cherina Monteniques Scott as iBabe #2  Zach Lasry as Boy  Super Hero Speed Dating  Co-edited and directed by James Duffy and written by Will Carlough  Robin and his cohort Batman are in Gotham City at a speed dating event seeking out a bomb threat by their nemesis Penguin. While Robin attempts to connect with various women through speed dating including Stacey, Lois Lane, and Supergirl, Batman encounters his ex Wonder Woman and attempts to stop Penguin from detonating Supergirl, who later turns out to be the Riddler in disguise, which Batman already knew and was screwing with Robin, who kissed "her" moments before Batman exposed the Riddler's ruse. Lois Lane tells Robin on their speed date that six months ago she broke up with Superman, who turns out to be a stalker/sexual predator by ejaculating on her bedroom window. Further playing with the popular discussion of Superman's sperm, like in the film Mallrats, Lois Lane reveals that he uses his semen as a hair gel to keep the spit curl consistent.  Cast  Justin Long as Robin  Jason Sudeikis as Batman  Uma Thurman as Lois Lane  Bobby Cannavale as Superman  Kristen Bell as Supergirl  John Hodgman as The Penguin  Leslie Bibb as Wonder Woman  Will Carlough as Riddler  Katrina Bowden as Stacey  Machine Kids  Written, co-edited, and directed by Jonathan van Tulleken  A faux-Public service announcement about children stuck in machines and how adults' criticism of these particular machines affects the feelings of the children stuck inside them. This commercial was paid for by the "Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Inside Machines".  Middle School Date  Directed by Elizabeth Banks, written by Elizabeth Wright Shapiro  Nathan and Amanda are watching television after school at his house as their first "middle school" date. When they begin to kiss, his older brother Mikey enters the living room and makes fun of them. Amanda then discovers she is menstruating and tries to hide it. When Nathan sees blood on her pants, he panics and believes her to be bleeding to death. He causes a debacle, later including Nathan and Mikey's father Steve and Amanda's father.  Amanda calls them out on their stupidity, embarrassed to know that she's getting her first period in front of them and they don't know what to do about it. When she leaves with her father, Nathan yells that the process of keeping the lining of her internal organs intact by inserting his erect phallus into her vagina is much too complicated and Mikey agrees. Steve cheers them up by farting in front of them. As Mikey goes to the bathroom, Nathan and Steve watch a game on television, which has a very graphic Tampax commercial in which a girl gets eaten by a shark due to her menstruating.  Cast  Christopher Mintz-Plasse as Mikey  Chloë Grace Moretz as Amanda  Jimmy Bennett as Nathan  Patrick Warburton as Steve (Nathan and Mikey's father)  Matt Walsh as Amanda's father  Happy Birthday  Directed by Brett Ratner, written by Jacob Fleisher  Pete captures a leprechaun for his roommate, Brian, as a birthday present. Tying the leprechaun up in the basement, they demand he gives them a pot of gold. The obscene leprechaun threatens that his brother is coming to save him. When he arrives, Brian and Pete are shot at but ultimately kill both leprechauns. At the end of the segment, Pete reveals he has also caught a fairy who performs fellatio for gold coins.  Cast  Gerard Butler as Leprechaun #1, Leprechaun #2  Johnny Knoxville as Pete  Seann William Scott as Brian  Esti Ginzburg as Storybook fairy  Truth or Dare  Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly, written by Greg Pritikin  Donald and Emily are on a date together at a Mexican restaurant. Tired of typical first dates, Emily challenges Donald to a game of truth or dare. She dares him to grab a man's buttocks, and he follows by daring her to blow out the birthday candles on a blind boy's cake. The game rapidly escalates to extremes, in which both of them get plastic surgery and tattoos, and humiliate themselves.  When Donald and Emily arrive back at Emily's apartment, they praise their date. Donald tries to kiss her, but she rejects him, claiming she's not attracted to Asian men (which he was surgically altered to resemble). She was joking and invites him to have sex with her as she shows him her enlarged breasts.  Cast  Halle Berry as Emily  Stephen Merchant as Donald  Sayed Badreya as Large man  Snooki as Herself  Caryl West as Waitress  Ricki Noel Lander as Nurse Elizabeth  Paloma Felisberto as Bachelorette party girl  Jasper Grey as Patron  Benny Harris as Blanco the bartender  Zen Gesner as Stripper  Victory's Glory  Directed by Rusty Cundieff, written by Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko  Set in 1959, Coach Jackson is lecturing his all-black basketball team before their first game against an all-white team. Worried about losing the game, the timid players are lectured by the coach about their superiority in the sport over their white counterparts, which he expresses vulgarly. When the game ensues, the all-white team loses miserably yet rejoices in a single point they earn.  Cast  Terrence Howard as Coach Jackson  Aaron Jennings as Anthony  Corey Brewer as Wallace  Jared Dudley as Moses  Larry Sanders as Bishop  Jay Ellis as Lucious  Brian Flaccus as White guy #1  Brett Davern as White guy #2  Evan Dumouchel as White guy #3  Sean Rosales as White guy #4  Logan Holladay as White guy #5  Mandy Kowalski as Cheerleader  Eric Stuart as Narrator  Beezel  Written and directed by James Gunn  Played mid-credits, Amy worries that her boyfriend Anson's animated cat Beezel is coming between them. Beezel seems to detest Amy and anyone who comes between him and Anson, but he only sees Beezel as innocent. One day, Amy witnesses Beezel masturbating to summer vacation photos of Anson in a swimsuit. He attacks and violently urinates on her.  Anson still finds his pet innocent but Amy threatens to leave if he doesn't get rid of Beezel. Caring more about his relationship, he agrees to find a new home for him. That night, from a closet, Beezel tearfully watches the couple make love (whilst sodomizing himself with a hairbrush and dry humping a stuffed teddy bear).  The next day when it comes time to take Beezel away, he is nowhere to be found. Amy goes outside to look. Beezel then runs her over with a truck and attempts to kill her with a shotgun, but she chases him into the street and begins beating him with a shovel, which is witnessed by a group of children attending a birthday party at a neighboring house.  When Anson approaches to see what is happening, Amy tries to explain Beezel's motives. He acts innocent and Anson sides with his cat. The children of the party then attack and murder Amy for beating up Beezel, stabbing her with plastic forks. Anson grabs him, as Beezel again fantasizes about French kissing his owner.  Cast  Elizabeth Banks as Amy  Josh Duhamel as Anson  Emily Alyn Lind as Birthday girl  Michelle Gunn as Mommy  Christina Linhardt as Party clown  Find Our Daughter  Written and directed by Bob Odenkirk  In this segment that was cut from the film, Maude and George are looking for their breast-flashing daughter Susie with the help of the private eye, who is behind the camera with only one clue which is a small video that features their daughter. The scene was included as an extra on the DVD and Blu-ray release.  Cast  Julianne Moore as Maude  Tony Shalhoub as George  Jordanna Taylor as Susie  Bob Odenkirk as Private Investigator  The Apprentice  Written and directed by Steve Baker and Damon Escott  The second segment cut from the film follows Wayne, a shy apprentice mortician who is secretly a necrophiliac at the hospital. One night, a body he's having sex with is brought back to life from the pressure of his thrusts. His supervisor Bob suddenly walks in and believes Wayne has performed a life-saving operation of some kind. The staff at the hospital and the media congratulate him while a news reporter asks what he did to save her.  Unable to conjure an answer, one of the cops on scene tells everyone else they can just watch the security tapes to find out. As they rush to the security room, Wayne is given a personal thanks by the girl he revived, upon which he responds with an awkward "You're welcome". Unlike Find Our Daughter, this segment was not included in the DVD or Blu-ray release and instead premiered at the 2014 LA Comedy Festival.  Cast  Anton Yelchin as Wayne  Shane Jacobson as Bob  Maria Volk as Girl  Christopher Kirby as Cop