Elizabeth 'Liz' Gilbert has a husband of eight years, a house, and a successful career – yet finds herself lost, confused, and searching for what she really wants in life. Liz asks for a divorce; her husband, Stephen, struggles to understand why and does not accept the divorce easily. In the meantime, she has a brief affair with David, a young actor. Newly divorced and at a crossroads, Liz steps out of her comfort zone, embarking on a three point trip: Italy, India and Bali, a journey that becomes a quest for self-discovery.  In her travels, she discovers the pleasure of eating in Italy, enjoying pasta and gelato for four months. A new Swedish friend introduces her to a private Italian tutor, and they celebrate Thanksgiving together right before she departs for India. There, Liz heads to an ashram where she experiences the power of prayer. In addition to mass prayer sessions, honoring their guru, she is assigned the chore of scrubbing floors. 'Texas Richard' keeps her on her toes as well as supporting her. When he's ready to move on, she's reassigned to greeting and orienting new arrivals.  Feeling more centered, Liz moves on to Bali, Indonesia. A year after first meeting him, she reintroduces herself to Ketut there. He gives her various tasks. While Liz is cycling, she is run off the road by Felipe, a Brazilian. She is sent to Wayan, a healer & homeopath in the village, to treat a bad gash in her leg. There she meets Brazilian Armenia. She convinces her to go back to the village that night to the Beach Shack for dancing.  There, Felipe approaches Liz, apologizing for almost killing her with his jeep. Armenia then tries to set her up with young Ian, but she doesn't want another idle fling. Felipe offers her a lift. Hours later, he returns with a hangover cure and his number. They hook up, and two weeks later Liz makes an appeal to her friends to donate to Wayan's future house, coming up with over $18,000. When Felipe proposes, they travel to a remote spot to spend time together, but after a few days, Liz panics and breaks up with him.  Deciding her time there is over, Liz prepares to leave and stops to say farewell to Ketut. He encourages her to embrace and not run from love. She acknowledges his advice and runs to the dock after Felipe, where she confesses her feelings to him. Finally and unexpectedly, the inner peace and balance of true love comes to her.