Beau Wasserman is the son of a famous and wealthy businesswoman, Mona, who is responsible for building a large conglomerate empire. He grows up without a father, who his mother says died the night Beau was conceived due to a heart murmur caused by an orgasm; he struggles with a recurring dream in which he watches from the bath as an identical twin demands to know what really happened, to which she locks him in the attic. As a teenager on a cruise trip with his mother, Beau meets and falls in love with a girl named Elaine. The two kiss and promise to remain virgins until they meet again as adults.  As an adult, Beau is extremely anxious and living alone in a crime-ridden city. He prepares for a flight to see his mother for the anniversary of his father's death, but misses his plane after his keys and luggage are stolen from his door. Beau calls his mother to explain the situation, but she dismisses him. After having been locked out by deranged homeless people for the night, he attempts to call his mother again, only to have it answered by a UPS driver who tells him that she was decapitated in an accident, after a chandelier fell on her head. After violent confrontations with an intruder at home, then by a police officer and a murderer on the street, Beau is hit by a food truck.  Beau wakes up wounded two days later in the house of a married couple, Grace and Roger, who live with their angsty teenage daughter Toni, and care for an unstable veteran named Jeeves, who was their late son's battle buddy until he was killed in action. Beau calls Mona's attorney, Dr. Cohen, who chastises him and informs Beau that despite the Jewish custom to lay the body to rest as soon as possible, her last wish was not to be buried until he was present. Roger promises to take Beau to his mother's estate as soon as possible but insists Beau rest until he is healed. On the day of Beau's release, Toni attempts to force him to drink a can of paint, before doing it herself, taking her own life. Grace walks in on Beau standing over Toni's body and violently blames him for her death. As Beau flees into the woods, Grace sends Jeeves after him.  Lost in the wilderness, Beau comes upon a group of traveling theater actors named "The Orphans of the Forest". He is invited to their rehearsal and becomes entranced by the play, imagining himself as the protagonist, who spends his entire life looking for his family after they are separated by a flood. A man approaches Beau and informs him that he knew his father, who he says is still alive. The troupe is ambushed by Jeeves, who slaughters several actors. Beau flees deeper into the woods.  Beau hitchhikes the rest of the way to his mother's estate, only to find that he has just missed her funeral. Beau is awakened from a nap when a woman arrives late for the service, and realizes it is Elaine. They reconnect before having sex. Beau is terrified that he is going to die upon climaxing but is relieved when he survives. Elaine, however, dies mid-orgasm, her body frozen stiff. Mona then appears from the shadows and reveals that she has been alive and spying on him all along his journey. She guilt-trips Beau for supposedly not loving her enough and he demands to know the truth about his father. Mona takes him to the attic, where Beau discovers he has a twin brother locked in the attic and that his father is actually a giant penis-shaped monster. At that moment, Jeeves breaks into the house and is killed by the monster. After further degrading from his mother, an enraged Beau briefly attempts to strangle her before she collapses.  In shock, Beau leaves the estate on a motorboat. After entering a cave, the boat's motor begins to stall, and he suddenly finds himself in a crowded arena; he is put on trial for perceived slights against his mother, with Mona and Dr. Cohen acting as prosecutors and a cheap lawyer defending Beau. With his feet glued to the boat, Beau tries to fend for himself and appeal to his mother, but she does not respond. Realizing he is completely hopeless in his situation, he decides to accept his fate. The motor explodes, capsizing the boat and drowning Beau. The crowd silently leaves the arena with Dr. Cohen and Mona, the latter of whom sobs uncontrollably.