Twenty-four-year-old high school dropout Scott Carlin lives with his mother Margie and his sister Claire in Staten Island. His firefighter father Stan died fighting a fire when he was seven, a loss that continues to affect him; he also deals with numerous medical problems, including Crohn's disease and ADD, and smokes marijuana often.   Unemployed, Scott spends his days hanging out with his friends, including Kelsey, whom he is sleeping with. She wants the relationship to be more serious, but he fears commitment and that he is not good enough for her. Claire, who is leaving for college, is concerned Scott's neuroses may grow out of control with her gone.  Scott dreams of being a tattoo artist and practices regularly on his friends, although his work is extremely inconsistent. One day, while hanging out with them at the beach, he is approached by 9-year-old Harold. Harold asks Scott to give him a tattoo, but runs off after getting a single line. Later, the boy's father, Ray, shows up at Scott's house.  Initially furious, Ray finds himself attracted to Margie and he eventually asks her out. Though she has not dated since Stan's death, she agrees. As things get more serious, Margie reveals their relationship to Scott, who is disturbed that he, like Stan, is a firefighter. Ray takes Scott to a Staten Island Yankees game with his co-workers but finds it difficult to talk to Scott, who argues that firefighters should not have families because of the pain that is caused by their deaths.  Margie and Ray give Scott an ultimatum to move out, which upsets him. While visiting Claire, he tells her he plans to break up their mom and Ray, as the relationship is 'unhealthy'. Scott gets a job as a busboy, and begins walking Harold and his sister Kelly to school each day, growing close with them.   Meanwhile, Scott's friends plan to rob a pharmacy for oxycodone pills to sell. He is uncomfortable with the plan but agrees to be the lookout. The robbery goes awry when the pharmacist and his wife confront them. Oscar is shot and all three are arrested, but Scott flees.  Scott talks with Ray's ex-wife Gina, who tells him several negative things about Ray, painting him as a homeless gambling addict. He relays this to Margie, only to end up in a physical confrontation with Ray when he hears what Scott told her. A furious Margie kicks both men out.  With his friends in jail, Scott struggles to find a place to stay. He hopes that Kelsey will let him stay with her after they sleep together, but she is indignant when she recognizes his ulterior motives and refuses. Desperate, Scott goes to Ray's firehouse, where he is told he may stay in return for doing chores.   Scott gradually bonds with Ray and the other firefighters, who tell him stories about his father, which humanizes him and helps Scott accept his death. Ray learns from Harold that Scott is a talented artist, and agrees to let him tattoo his back as practice, but within certain limits.  One day, a man shows up at the firehouse with an abdominal wound while Scott is there alone. He takes him to the hospital, where Ray arrives, using his firefighter connections to get the man the help he needs. Margie, who works as an emergency room nurse, sees Scott and Ray and reconciles with them both.   Ray shows Margie his tattoos; a number of them are offensive or violate his criteria, but the most prominent is one of Margie, Ray, Scott, and Claire together (plus their dad as the sun). Scott surprises Kelsey at the Staten Island Ferry, where she is heading into Manhattan to take a civil service exam. He rides on the ferry with her, where he confesses his love for her, and they kiss. Kelsey heads into the exam, asking him to wait for her.