In 1973, after a long period of medical treatment for walking difficulties, ten-year-old Michael "Eddie" Edwards dreams of Olympic glory, trying his hand at various Olympic events and failing. His mother encourages him, while his father discourages him. As a teen, Eddie tries his dream of participating in the Summer Games, and when that fails, he tries out skiing in the Winter Games. Although skilled at the sport, he is rejected by British Olympic officials for being uncouth. Realising he could make the team as a ski jumper (a sport which the United Kingdom has not participated in for six decades), Eddie decamps to a training facility in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, West Germany, where the more seasoned jumpers belittle him.  Eddie self-trains, and after successfully completing the  hill on his first try, he injures himself on his first attempt at a  slope. Alcoholic snow groomer Bronson Peary advises Eddie to give up, but Eddie's tenacious spirit and a shared sense of being an outsider convince Bronson to train Eddie. Peary is an American former champion ski jumper who left the sport after a conflict with his mentor, Warren Sharp, as Eddie learns from Petra, a cafe owner who takes him in. With very little time to qualify for the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Eddie and Bronson employ various unorthodox methods to refine Eddie's form, and he successfully completes the 40m jump.   To qualify for the British Olympic division in ski jumping, Eddie must complete a jump from a  hill. He manages to land the jump successfully, with a distance of 34 metres (112 ft), thus earning a place on the British Olympic Team. In an effort to keep Eddie from sullying the Winter Games with his amateurish skillset, the officials change their criteria and demand that he jump at least . Eddie decides to continue training and performs on a circuit, his jumps increasing in length each time.  While practicing for the final event before the cutoff date for qualification, Eddie lands a 61m jump exactly, but misses the mark on his official jump and is disqualified. Eddie is about to return home to work with his father when he receives a letter stating that his qualifying practice jump is valid. Bronson advises Eddie wait until the 1992 games and train for the next four years to give himself a better chance of winning a medal, concerned that he will embarrass himself and his country if he goes ahead, but Eddie is undeterred.  Upon arriving in Calgary, Eddie is scorned by the other British competitors, who get him drunk so that he fails to attend the opening ceremonies. Despite finishing last in the 70m jump with , Eddie sets a British record. His triumphant celebrations win the audience over, and the media embrace him as Eddie "The Eagle". Over the phone, Bronson criticizes Edwards for not taking the sport seriously. Edwards publicly apologises for his behavior and, wanting to ensure he does not leave the games without recognition, he enters the  jump, which he has never attempted before. Bronson now travels to the games to support him.  After an encouraging conversation with his idol Matti "The Flying Finn" Nykänen on the lift to the top of the hill (he says that Eddie represents the "Spirit" of what the Olympic Games should be), Eddie miraculously lands a  jump. Once again, he comes last in the event, but is nonetheless cheered by the audience and TV viewers worldwide, which earns him recognition in the closing speech of the President of the Organising Committee for the Olympic Games, Frank King. British Olympic officials grudgingly accept him. Warren Sharp reconciles with Bronson, and Edwards returns home a national hero, welcomed by fans at the airport, as well as his mother and father; the latter reveals he is wearing a jumper that says "I'm Eddie's dad," and says he is proud of him.