In 1928, Tom Branson, the Earl of Grantham's widowed son-in-law, marries Lucy Smith, the illegitimate daughter of and sole heir to Lady Maud Bagshaw, Queen Mary's lady-in-waiting. Violet Crawley, the Dowager Countess of Grantham, astonishes the family by revealing that long ago she was gifted a villa in the South of France by the Marquis de Montmirail, who has recently died. Violet is bequeathing it to her great-granddaughter, Sybbie, the daughter of Tom and the late Lady Sybil Crawley, to ensure that she is more on a par socially and financially with her cousins George, Caroline, Marigold, and Peter.  A film production company wants to use Downton to shoot a silent film called The Gambler. Robert declines, until his eldest daughter and estate manager, Lady Mary Talbot, convinces him that the fee would be enough to replace Downton's leaking roof. The household staff are eager to see the film's stars, but lead actress Myrna Dalgliesh's haughtiness offends several of them.  The new marquis de Montmirail invites the Crawley family to visit the villa. The ailing Violet is unable to travel, but Tom and Lucy, Lady Bagshaw, Robert Crawley and his wife Cora, their daughter Edith and her husband, Bertie Pelham, the Marquess of Hexham, accept. The servants they take with them are Downton's former butler Carson, Mr Bates, and Miss Baxter.  Lady Edith, once again writing for the magazine she owns, uses this as a working assignment as well. Lady Mary remains at Downton to oversee the filming, assisted by Mrs Hughes.  The Marquis de Montmirail welcomes the family to the villa. His mother wants to contest Violet Crawley's ownership. However, the family lawyer states that there is no basis for a claim especially as the late Marquis bequeathed the villa to Violet before he married his wife and so the villa is legally Violet's.  The marquis speaks privately with Robert and stuns him by implying that Robert's birth date, nine months after the Dowager Countess visited in 1864, could mean they are half-brothers. That night, Cora reveals to Robert she may be fatally ill. Robert breaks down at the prospect of losing his mother, the Crawley name, and his wife in short succession.  At Downton, the studio cancels The Gambler because silent films are no longer profitable, after the introduction of "talkie" films. Lady Mary suggests salvaging the project by dubbing in the dialogue for the completed scenes. Lead actor Guy Dexter's voice is suitable, but Myrna Dalgleish's cockney accent is inappropriate for her upper-class character. Mrs Hughes suggests that Lady Mary could dub Dalgleish's voice. Fearing her career is ruined, Dalgleish quits, but Downton servants Anna and Daisy persuade her to complete the film. Former Downton footman Mr Molesley, who can lip-read, reconstructs the dialogue for dubbing, and creates a dialogued script for the remaining story.  The family returns to Downton while filming continues (with Robert and Cora ruining a take by accident). Lady Mary gently rebuffs director Jack Barber's flirtations, although her husband Henry's prolonged absence for a car rally has strained their marriage. Guy Dexter tacitly reveals to Downton's closeted butler, Thomas Barrow, that he too is gay. This leads Barrow to accept Dexter's offer of managing his Los Angeles house and being a travelling companion so they can have a life together. Dr Clarkson diagnoses Cora with pernicious anaemia, a treatable condition. Cora helps Dalgleish develop an American accent, potentially saving her career. Edith, unfulfilled and constrained as a marchioness, intends to resume working at her London-based magazine which she does a few times a week. Newlywed servants Daisy and Andy scheme to match up Daisy's former father-in-law, Mr Mason, and Downton cook Mrs Patmore, which succeeds. When the film's unpaid extras walk out, the Downton staff replace them, ensuring its completion. Barber offers Molesley a lucrative deal as a screenwriter. Molesley then proposes to Miss Baxter, unaware that they are being overheard by all the other Downton staff on an open microphone.  Violet assures Robert that the late Lord Grantham was his father and that nothing serious occurred between her and the elder Montmirail. Violet's health deteriorates and she ultimately dies, surrounded by her family and loved ones, plus Gladys Denker, her lady's maid. Mary asks Carson to return temporarily as butler to train footman Andy to succeed Barrow. Months later, Tom and Lucy, along with Sybbie, return to Downton with their new infant. A new portrait hangs in the main hall, that of the late Dowager Countess.