In 1860s London, ambitious medical student Victor Frankenstein attends a circus performance, where he helps save an injured aerialist, Lorelei, with the aid of a hunchback who is enslaved by the circus' ringleader and harbors feelings for the girl. Impressed by the hunchback's knowledge of human anatomy, acquired from stolen books, Victor rescues him, drains the cyst on his back that causes his physical abnormality, and gives him a harness to improve his posture – he then names him "Igor Straussman" after his roommate who is not often at home. The two become partners in Victor's ongoing experiments to resurrect life through artificial means, incurring the wrath of religious police inspector Roderick Turpin, who views their experiments as blasphemy.  Victor procures parts from dead animals and makes Igor restore the organs, which Victor secretly uses to create a monstrous chimpanzee-like creature nicknamed "Gordon".  Igor reunites with Lorelei, now masquerading as the mistress of a closeted gay baron, upsetting Victor, who views Lorelei as a distraction. Igor invites Lorelei to a demonstration of their experiment, which goes awry when Gordon escapes and wreaks havoc through the university. He is eventually killed by Victor and Igor. Lorelei is horrified by Victor's experiments and urges Igor to stop him from pursuing the matter further. Igor is reluctant to do so upon learning that Victor is driven by the need to atone for his indirect role in the death of his older brother, Henry, for which Victor's domineering father blames Victor.  Victor is expelled from college for his unorthodox methods but attracts the attention of his wealthy classmate Finnegan, who wants him to create an artificial humanoid creature. Victor and Igor outline a behemoth named "Prometheus". However, Igor's deepening relationship with Lorelei soon causes a rift between them.  The police raid Victor's laboratory, hell-bent on destroying his inventions. During the raid Igor stumbles onto the corpse of the real Igor Straussman, dead from an overdose, and the source of the eyes Victor had used in his experiments. When he attacks Victor, Turpin loses a hand and is blinded in one eye. Victor and Igor escape in a carriage sent by Finnegan and are taken to his family's estate. Turpin is put on medical leave from Scotland Yard for having invaded Victor's home without a warrant.  Finnegan provides the scientists with the funds to build Prometheus and offers them laboratory facilities at his family's estate in Scotland. Igor is suspicious of Finnegan and outraged with Victor for his treatment of Straussman. After a falling out, Victor departs for Scotland alone. Finnegan kidnaps Igor and plans to kill Victor once Prometheus is complete, to weaponize his creation. Igor is then thrown into the Thames to drown but manages to escape and reunites with Lorelei, who nurses him back to health.  To rescue Victor, Igor and Lorelei embark to Finnegan's estate. Igor finds Victor on the verge of using lightning to animate Prometheus. Victor ignores his pleas and activates the machine. A power surge overloads the machinery, killing Finnegan and several of his employees. During the ensuing chaos, an enraged Turpin arrives. Prometheus awakens. Victor is initially ecstatic that the experiment has worked, thinking Prometheus to be his resurrected brother Henry. Victor quickly realizes that the experiment has failed: Prometheus has no consciousness and cannot talk. Turpin opens fire on Prometheus, who goes into a rage, kills him and nearly murders Victor. Returning to his senses, Victor joins forces with Igor to kill Prometheus by stabbing its two hearts.  The next morning, Igor reunites with Lorelei, who hands him a letter written to him by Victor. In it, Victor apologizes for all the suffering he caused and allows Igor to live his life with Lorelei. Victor informs Igor to be ready for when Victor may one day ask for his help, recognizing that Igor was his "greatest creation". Victor retreats to the Scottish countryside in search of new discoveries.