Nate Cooper is unable to get it together with women. But he also cannot forget his first love: the beautiful Cristabel Abbott, from their time in elementary school. Nate sets out for the beaches of California and meets up with his geeky best friend Arno, whose mother has an unnatural amount of information about Cristabel, and perhaps an unusual relationship with her son.  Cristabel jogs on the beach every day with many suitors trying to catch her eye, including an albino stalker. But she's still single, and there is a reason: Cristabel is still best friends with the same short, unattractive brunette girl whom Nate also knew in elementary school, June Phigg.  Nate reintroduces himself to Cristabel and they hit it off. However, she refuses to go on a date with him unless June has a date as well. Nate sets out to find a boyfriend for June, but men recoil at the sight of her. He tricks someone, under the pretense that he's offering $500 for participating in medical testing, then explains it's to date June. At first, he's repulsed by her, but Nate hypnotizes him, so temporarily fools his brain, but in the middle of a date he snaps out of it and runs.  One day at the Santa Monica Pier, Johann Wulrich, an attractive dentist and a part-time model, appears in their lives. He seems to want to do a makeover on June when he apparently sees her inner beauty. However, Nate believes that Johann is a threat to his shot for Cristabel, since Johann is almost perfect. Eventually, with June dating Johann, Cristabel finally begins dating Nate, per his original plan.  Over the next few weeks, as Nate and June become friends and she emerges from her cocoon, with her face and appearance transforming. She becomes a more and more attractive woman whose beauty begins to be comparable to Cristabel's. Nate slowly realizes that June may be the girl of his dreams. When he realizes this, Nate tells  Cristabel, who is happy for June.  Nate then hurries to find June, discovering that she had rejected Johann, who'd thought he would get 'grateful sex' from her. When Nate finds her, he tells her he loves her, and they kiss.