Two young American women, Stephanie and Ellie, are backpacking through South America. On their last day in Argentina, they decide to stay in a small hotel. After a drunken night at the local bar, where they encounter some of the local men, the two miss the bus that was supposed to take them to their next destination. Since the bus only comes once per day, they decide to head down to the nearby river to relax and enjoy their extra day off.  The trip takes a turn for the worse when the two are separated after a heated argument, and Ellie is kidnapped. While Stephanie desperately searches for her friend, she is joined by Michael, an American who claims to be looking for his girlfriend who disappeared months before.  The duo is assisted by the town's only police officer, who acts oddly suspicious. Stephanie finds the hide-out where the kidnapper has taken Ellie and manages to rescue her, but Ellie is later killed in the escape by the man who kidnapped her.  The policeman appears and lures Stephanie into his car. By finding her passport there, she understands that the lone police officer was behind all the missing girls and he is a corrupt cop. Michael grabs the policeman's weapon. The policeman offers to trade Michael's girlfriend, Camila, for Stephanie. Michael agrees but is shot by the policeman using a second weapon.  Stephanie is taken by the policeman and the kidnapper to be sold. This time she escapes herself by jumping off a boat while killing the kidnapper. Reaching the shore of Paraguay, she is caught by the buyer who is waiting for her and the Argentinean policeman who chased her, but she manages to escape again. The policeman chase her again killing a local fisherman who tried to help her on the way. She then hides inside the boat and grab a knife from the table. When the chaser enters the boat they fight and she eventually is able to stab him on the leg to grab his gun and kill the policeman. The last scene shows Stephanie walking to the nearest town at dawn when a jeep arrives and a Paraguayan militar woman comes out to finally rescue her.