Malik and Imani Jeffries, a young black couple, move into a new house in the fictional affluent suburban Atlanta community of Harvey Hill, named after Confederate general Daniel Harvey Hill. Harvey Hill Homeowners Association president Karen Drexler, their next-door neighbor and a widowed stay-at-home mother of two, quickly introduces herself to Malik; she refuses to shake his hand, callously comments about not "having any cash" in her home, and installs a security camera directed towards their house. Although perplexed by her behavior, the couple decides to ignore their concerns and focus on settling in.  Unbeknownst to both, the virulently racist Karen has Neo-Confederate memorabilia in her home and a reputation for abusing her power as president to target local black residents, often recruiting her equally racist brother, Atlanta Police Department patrolman Michael Wind, to assist her. She soon starts harassing and stalking the couple, trying to find something she can use to remove them from Harvey Hill. She discovers that Malik secretly smokes marijuana and catches her seventeen-year-old son Kyle watching the couple have sex through an open window, but when she raises the issue at a meeting of the association's executive board, the other members, disturbed by her bigoted remarks about African Americans, decide against taking any action.  After learning that the couple is holding a housewarming party for their friends, Karen convinces Imani that she wants to make amends and is invited. At the party, she quickly offends everyone present, including the couple, by insinuating that black Americans are being too angry and that if they dislike the country, they should just return to Africa. The next day, she encounters three young black men, demanding that they identify themselves. They refuse, and she calls Mike, falsely accusing them of harassment. He arrests them, but they are quickly released after video footage of her phone call, recorded by the trio, and their subsequent arrest, recorded by Imani on her cellphone, surfaces. The association then fires her as president after being sued by prominent civil rights lawyer Charles Wright, the father of one of the young men.  Growing more deranged and frustrated, Karen gets Mike to pull Malik over while driving home from work by revealing his past marijuana usage. Finding no marijuana in Malik's car, Mike plants a bag of the substance in the trunk, subsequently arresting him following a physical altercation. After his rookie partner, Officer Hill, accuses him of racism, Mike threatens to kill Hill if he ever double-crosses him again in the field, warning that a secret brotherhood within the police force shields him from any charges. Malik manages to post his own bail and arrives home the following morning. Karen then visits Imani, asking her and Malik to leave the neighborhood to avoid further trouble, but Imani defiantly declines. The couple then hires Charles to represent them, who shows them a file suggesting that after a Black vigilante killed her police officer husband Ken Drexler and two other officers a few years earlier, Karen became unhinged and was later dismissed from her job as an elementary school teacher for making racist remarks towards her students.  That night, Mike, alerted by Karen of recent events, arrives with a falsified search warrant and arrests Malik again for owning an unregistered handgun, and Imani tearfully calls Charles, who calls the precinct and discovers Malik was not formally booked. Meanwhile, Karen cuts the power to the couple's house and breaks in with a gun. While Imani defends herself with a sword, Karen shoots at her several times, prompting a neighbor to call the police. Mike immediately rushes to Imani's house, where the siblings threaten her at gunpoint before Karen shoots her in the shoulder, seemingly killing her. Hill rushes in, and a standoff ensues until Mike and Hill shoot each other at close range; Mike is killed while Hill is only slightly wounded. Karen prepares to finish him off, but a still-alive Imani grabs Mike's gun and kills her in self-defense.  After Malik's release from custody, he and Imani receive a full apology and compensation from the city for their ordeal. Imani, now pregnant, assumes Karen's position within the Homeowners Association and successfully renames the community to John Lewis.