In Los Angeles, Kevin and Damon are two best friends who work as house cleaners and aspiring club promoters; Kevin also aspires to make music and get a steady income to support himself and his young daughter Destiny.  The two of them are dropped from a promotion gig by Kyle and his gang (Guile and Larry) due to Damon having illicit involvement with Guile's cousin. While the two of them are working at a mansion, Kevin is informed by his childhood friend and current supervisor Venus that he and Damon will be fired due to cameras catching them goofing off on the job. Damon finds out that the mansion they are cleaning belongs to LeBron James, who is in India on a two-week meditation retreat, and proposes that he and Kevin host a party there for LeBron's celebrity contacts. Kevin, now desperate for money due to him knowing he's fired and not starting his new IT job for another 2 months hesitantly joins in on the plan. Kevin asks Venus to supply him and Damon with the keys to the mansion, and she very reluctantly agrees.  Damon and Kevin market the party as a secret event to avoid alerting the police, and the event starts out as a success. However, Kyle and his gang find out about it after no one shows up to their own party, and take advantage of a lapse in security to break into LeBron's trophy room and steal his Cleveland Cavaliers 2016 championship ring. Kevin grows distressed over the damage happening to the mansion and confronts Damon over his flippant disregard for everything around him. Damon is later beaten up by Nick and his gang, but then sees his idol Mya. Mya offers for Damon to leave the party with her, but Damon declines in order to help Kevin keep the party from falling apart.  Damon and Kevin find out that LeBron's ring has been stolen, and try desperately to find it. Kid Cudi tells them that the Illuminati possesses a copy of every sports championship ring, and the duo are desperate enough to take up his offer. Venus volunteers to run the party in their absence, and she and Kevin kiss. Kid Cudi sneaks Damon and Kevin into an Illuminati convention where they successfully steal the ring, but are exposed when they inadvertently invoke God's name. The Illuminati force them into a gladiator fight, but Kid Cudi sacrifices himself to allow them to live, entrusting them with a poem he wrote for LeBron's eyes only.  Damon and Kevin arrive back at the mansion to return the ring and end the party, but are interrupted by LeBron who returned from his trip early. LeBron intends to have the duo arrested, but Damon claims Kevin was not involved in the party and makes a wager that LeBron will let him go if he can beat the NBA superstar in a pickup basketball game. LeBron wins easily, and Damon is hauled off by the police. Kevin is forced to give LeBron the money he and Damon made, which the latter gives to charity.  However, upon reading Kid Cudi's poem, LeBron has a change of heart and works to get Damon released early from his jail sentence, following which he is picked up by Mya. Kyle and his gang are arrested after trying to sell LeBron's ring and the party causes Kevin to gain recognition and make money from his music.  Back in the Illuminati mansion, Kid Cudi is brought back to life.