Megan Stewart and Amy Herman are 14-year-old best friends who vanished in January 2007. Investigators assembled web-chat videos, home movies, and news reports chronicling their disappearances to bring awareness to the importance of online safety for children. Megan is a high school honors student who is popular amongst her peers. However, as seen in web footage on January 2, she has a dysfunctional relationship with her mother and drug addiction. Amy is reluctant to let go of her childhood (as seen through her adoration of stuffed toys) and has a healthy relationship with her parents. Despite her close friendship with Megan, Amy is a target of bullying.  To help her fit in, Megan invites her to a rave party she's attending to celebrate Amy's upcoming birthday. From footage found the night of the party, Amy is visibly uncomfortable and gets assaulted when she refuses to have sex with one of the men attending. Amy walks in on Megan performing oral sex on the party's host in exchange for drugs, leaving her shocked. While video chatting, Megan apologizes for the bad experience. On Amy's birthday, she records a video diary on her new camera of her and Megan. Megan relates her life story to Amy and reveals that her stepfather is in prison for raping her at the age of nine. She explains that her hostile relationship with her mother is due to her never forgiving Megan for reporting him to authorities. Before she can cry, Amy quickly hugs and comforts her.  Lexie, one of Megan's party friends, gives her social media handle to Josh, someone they think is a 17-year-old boy from a nearby school. He remains anonymous on video chat, claiming that he has a broken webcam. Despite several red flags and contradictions, Megan finds herself infatuated with him. They agree to meet at a party, but he fails to reveal himself. She confronts him online but forgives him when he accurately describes what she was wearing and insists he is shy.  Amy begins to feel left out, and while at Megan's house, Megan introduces her to him. Josh convinces Megan to meet him behind a diner (rather than public this time). On January 17, news reports reveal that Megan vanished and the last footage of her is from the diner's grainy security camera, showing her being grabbed by the wrist by an indistinct man. Amy launches an investigation into Megan's disappearance and talks online with Josh. After realizing Amy suspects him, he threatens her. Subsequently, graphic images of a tortured Megan's mouth, nostrils, and eyes forced open while immobilized in a pillory table begin surfacing on fetish forums.  While recording a video diary underneath an old bridge where she'd share secrets with Megan, Amy is grabbed by a man. Investigators find her video camera in a garbage can. In unedited footage, Josh unlocks the door to a BDSM chamber with Amy chained to the wall. She begs for her teddy bear and he responds by making her eat food from a dog bowl without her hands. Josh later brutally rapes her, then tells her that he will let her go if she gets into a large plastic barrel to conceal his whereabouts. Amy opens the barrel and attempts to flee when she sees Megan's decaying corpse inside. She is forced inside alongside Megan's body and begs to live while Josh digs a large hole in a forest. He pushes the barrel in and fills it up before picking up his flashlight and walking away.