The story takes place entirely in New York. Armando (E. J. Bonilla) works part-time at his parents' restaurant and is also a custodian at a dance studio, where he secretly practices dance moves. He befriends the beautiful Mia Franklin (Leah Pipes), a dancer who is having a relationship with the studio's owner Daniel (Philip Willingham). She catches Armando dancing alone, likes what she sees, gives him a few tips, and they dance together briefly, but are discovered by Daniel. Trying to avoid an awkward situation, Mia leaves. When Armando realizes that Mia has left her scarf behind, he calls out to her from the studio's second floor window.  On the sidewalk below, Mia turns to cross the street, when she struck by a taxi and rendered a paraplegic, paralyzed from the waist down. Upon learning of this, Daniel jilts her. Armando tries to boost her confidence and persuades her and other disabled people in the local rehabilitation center, including a "punky" Latina, Nikki (Auti Angel) and a wounded Iraq-war veteran, Kenny, (Morgan Spector) to enter a wheelchair ballroom dancing competition. Despite the opposition of his mother (Priscilla Lopez), Armando and Mia gradually fall in love and enter into a relationship, while Armando's uncle Wilfredo (Nelson Landrieu) falls in love with Chantelle (Laverne Cox), a disabled trans woman at the rehab center. Before the competition, Armando's mother, who has been maneuvering to get Armando hooked up with the beautiful Rosa (Angelic Zambrana), does her best to undermine (even to the point of "casting spells") the relationship between him and Mia, which has become sexually intimate by now. But Rosa understands, and generously breaks off with Armando.  On the night of the competition, Mia panics when she sees Daniel in the audience watching her, and instead of dancing, rushes to her dressing room and begins to pack her things. Armando's mother sees what is happening, rushes to Mia's dressing room, admits that she was wrong, tells Mia that Armando loves her and encourages her to reunite with Armando and win the competition.  Mia goes to Armando, tells him she loves him, and the two return to the competition and begin to dance. But just as the dance is at its height, Mia falls out of her wheelchair. As the stunned audience watches, Armando triumphantly picks her up and the two complete their dance with Armando holding Mia in his arms. The film ends without our knowing if they have won the competition.