Jerrica Benton and her younger sister Kimber live with their Aunt Bailey and two foster sisters, Aja and Shana. The four girls frequently videotape themselves playing music and wearing colorful '80s outfits just for fun, but Jerrica is too shy to sing on camera. Jerrica learns one day that, due to Aunt Bailey's financial problems, their house will be auctioned. She vents her emotions by recording a song with Kimber's video camera. She disguises herself by calling herself "Jem", her late father Emmett's nickname for her.  She is interrupted just before deleting the video and an Internet-obsessed Kimber uploads it onto YouTube. The video attracts millions of views in a single day. Jerrica is offered a record deal by Starlight Productions and travels to Los Angeles with her sisters. They meet music producer Erica Raymond and her son Rio. Erica is polite and courteous with the quartet, but shows particular interest in Jerrica, who she sees as a potential superstar.  The girls settle down in L.A. and discuss their next move. They have brought along a small robot called 51N3RG.Y (pronounced synergy), an invention of Emmett's. The robot suddenly activates itself and leads them on a scavenger hunt. Each clue represents something Jerrica did or wanted to do with her father. The objective is to find several missing pieces designed to fit into the robot to be fully activated. The girls find the first piece on the Santa Monica Pier. They find the second clue in a guitar once owned by Emmett when, by coincidence, the band plays live.  Rio and Jerrica begin to develop romantic feelings, much to Erica's dismay. Erica assigns Rio to another singer in an attempt to keep him away from Jerrica. Aunt Bailey tells Jerrica via FaceTime that their house is going for auction in a few days. Desperate to save the home, Jerrica asks Erica for an advance. Erica says she will oblige if Jerrica agrees to leave her sisters and go solo. Jerrica relents, believing it's for the good of her family. When the others find out, they denounce her for leaving them out of the deal and depart. After a dull solo performance, Jerrica becomes depressed over her mistake and visits the L.A. house where she used to live with Kimber and her father.  Her sisters arrive and reconcile. They vow to help finish the scavenger hunt, along with Rio. Jerrica realizes that the last piece is the earrings Emmett bequeathed to her, but Erica had them taken during her first visit to Starlight. The earrings are now stored in Erica's office. Rio and the girls break into Starlight, almost getting caught by Erica, but succeed. The reward is a final holographic message from Emmett. The group also discover Rio's late father's will, which grants him a majority of Starlight shares, effectively putting him in control of the company.  With the house safe, Jem and her sisters perform live. Rio chats with rock journalist Lindsey Pierce, who offers the band the Rolling Stone cover. Pierce asks Rio what to call the band; he suggests "Jem and the Holograms."  In a mid-credits scene, Erica, now terminated from Starlight, seeks out a group of punkish young women in a seedy junkyard. She attempts to convince them to form a band to rival the Holograms. When their leader Pizzazz learns that Jem and Rio are an item, she takes Erica inside their trailer; graffiti on the side of their trailer reveals their name as the Misfits.