The film starts with Graeme Obree (Miller), who suffers from a depressive moment (which we learn is due to a crippling bipolar disorder), cycles into a wood where he attempts to hang himself. A flashback to Obree's (Sean Brown) childhood depicts him being physically attacked at school by other pupils, leaving the young Graeme with severe psychological scars. One day Obree is given a bicycle by his parents which we see Obree using to evade his bullies.  As the film progresses the adult Obree is now married to Anne with a child. In between competing in local races, he runs a failing bicycle shop and has to supplement his income as a bicycle courier. Graeme encounters Malky McGovern (Boyd), a fellow bike courier, who recognises who Graeme is and they become fast friends. While working in his shop an older gentleman called Baxter (Cox), asks Graeme to repair his old bike. Graeme agrees after roping Baxter into being the judge over a race with a local van driver. Graeme narrowly beats the driver but the van steers into him. Baxter takes an immediate liking to Graeme but recognises a darkness in the younger man.  Graeme decides to try and beat the hour record. However, he has neither the funding nor the quality of bicycle required. Determined to succeed, he asks Malky to take over his management and fundraising from his wife Anne who is overwhelmed with work and raising their child. Cox turns out to be a boatyard owner and offers Graeme and Malky his yard to build a fitting bike. Graeme sets himself 8 weeks to build a bike, raise funds for the challenge and pay for access to a fitting velodrome. The driving force for such a tight deadline is because Chris Boardman's attempt for breaking the record is the 9th week.  Graeme manages to build a revolutionary prototype called Old Faithful, for maximum efficiency, made up from scrap metal and components from a washing machine. Malky chastises Graeme that they cannot attempt the record using Old Faithful as Boardman is going to be using a bike specially designed by computers and costing £500,000. Nevertheless Malky, Anne and Graeme arrive in Norway for their attempt, Graeme is derided by officials. Malky reveals to Graeme that he has had a proper bike built based on the prototype of Old Faithful. Graeme grudgingly agrees to use the new bike but his first attempt at the record proves to be a failure and he comes up short.  Graeme tells everyone he intends to go again as he has the velodrome booked for 24 hours. Due to the gruelling nature of the 1 hour challenge, everyone cautions him against making a second attempt. Graeme devises a cunning way to prevent his body from seizing up and cramping and exercises throughout the night. The next morning he and Anne sleep in and rush to find Malky, who unknown to Graeme has rebuilt the bike using Old Faithful's parts. Graeme embarks on his attempts and this time is successful in beating the record.  However, his victory is short-lived as his record is broken by Chris Boardman (Adrian Grove, credited as Adrian Smith) a week later. The Union Cycliste Internationale hold a meeting where they devise rules to discourage Obree from using his experimental bicycle in future. Obree is severely depressed the night following his record-making ride. This is exacerbated when Boardman breaks the record. When Obree is confronted in a pub by the four bullies who had victimised him years earlier at school, he becomes completely withdrawn and rarely leaves his house. Baxter attempts to counsel him, but Obree feels betrayed when he discovers that Baxter is the pastor of a local church and the younger Obree is agnostic towards religion.  He recovers enough to compete in the Individual Pursuit World Championship in 1993, in which he uses his bicycle design again. The UCI officials begin rigorously enforcing the new ruling, penalising him for riding in the "Tuck" stance that his bicycle design is intended to support. The physical and emotional exertion take their toll, and he crashes disastrously, breaking his arm.  The plot then returns to the opening of the film. The rope Graeme attempts to use to hang himself breaks, and he is found by another cyclist who summons the authorities. Graeme initially resists treatment, until Baxter tells him about his wife, who also suffered from bipolar disorder and ultimately took her own life. At Graeme's request, his wife, Anne, a hospital nurse, agrees to help him begin treatment.  Graeme later makes a comeback and regains the 1 hour record as well as his world title. The new bicycle configuration that he uses, which supports the "Superman" stance, is later banned by the UCI after eight riders win gold medals with it.