Although based on real events, the film is a largely fictitious re-imagining of the life of Jem Belcher from when he grows up watching his revered grandfather Jack Slack fight as a bare-knuckle pugilist. Jem is constantly warned by his mother Mary Belcher against following his grandfather's life as Prizefighter. One afternoon, Jem spots an opportunity for some coin and fights in a fair easily defeating the troupe's champion, Bob 'the Blackbeard' Britton. He is spotted by Bill Warr, who approaches Jem to come fight for him. His mother is appalled but the older Jack, advises him that if he maintains discipline unlike himself, he could become a true champion. Jem takes to prize fighting with ease and is quickly pitched against the champion of England, who he manages to defeat after being coached by Bill. He is revered around the country and Mary is shocked to hear how far and quickly her son has risen. Jem though like Jack takes to the lifestyle of a fighter poorly and is intoxicated by the trappings it provides. In no time he starts losing discipline and meets with Lord Rushworth who introduces Jem to the vices of gambling and drinking.  Bill worries that Jem is going to lose his new found status as Champion. In a display match run by Rushworth Jem is struck in the eye and loses most of his vision in his left eye. Bill encourages Jem to step back from fighting and return home to rest and see his family. The younger Jem, declines and cannot differentiate himself from the fighter and the man. Jem goes on a destructive trail, drinking and eventually winds up in prison. When he is released, he returns to see his family. Jem realises he has taken his skill for granted and rejoins Bill to train for his title defense. Bill trains Jem hard to prepare him for Henry 'The Game Chicken' Pearce who is a dangerous opponent and the new Champion of England. Rushworth takes to training Pearce knowing that Jem has a weak eye.  The fight is commenced under new rules with boxing gloves which Jem is unaccustomed to. Pearce immediately targets Jem's damaged eye and Bill guides Jem through the fight. After two vicious rounds, Jem is barely holding his own. Bill advises Jem to box tactically and not get caught in a slugging match. Jem overpowers Pearce and knocks him to the floor, but the younger fighter beats the count. The fight continues and becomes a brutal test of survival for both fighters.  The film concludes with a note to say that Bill Warr died in 1809, Jem was crowned the youngest champion ever and died 2 years after Bill in 1811 at just 30 years of age.