In Westerville, Ohio, Kyle and Peter Reynolds are fraternal twins who were raised by their mother Helen as their father died before they were born. Kyle is dating his pregnant girlfriend Kaylani and is wealthy from royalties for his image on BBQ sauce labels. Peter is a divorced proctologist with a teenage son Ethan who resents him.  Shortly after Helen's wedding to Gene, Peter recognizes an actor on Law and Order: SVU from photos of his supposed father and confronts Helen. Helen explains that she had been promiscuous at the time of their conception, and did not want their father involved. When they keep pressing, Helen reveals that their father is Terry Bradshaw.  The brothers fly to Miami to meet Bradshaw who they encounter at a signing event. He is excited to have them as sons. As Bradshaw recounts stories with former teammate Rod Hamilton, they realize he had been in Australia at the time of their conception (a trip Helen had backed out of at the last minute) and thus isn't their father. Bradshaw points out that Roland Hunt, a New York investor, also dated Helen after him.  As they travel north after contacting Helen about him, Kyle finds that his BBQ sauce royalties deal is ending. Arriving at what they assumed was Hunt's office, they find a boarded-up house. Hunt confronts them at gunpoint until they reveal why they were looking for him. He invites them inside, but expresses his dissatisfaction at having children in front of his mother. As the brothers prepare to depart, they offer to help their father with his repossession service.   However, they realize that Hunt is a criminal when he breaks into a Ferrari. As the brothers argue with the owners of the car, Hunt flees only to feel remorse for abandoning his sons. The brothers steal the Ferrari and hit Hunt who was returning to them. At the hospital, the brothers find that they are incompatible to give Hunt blood, indicating that he cannot be their father. Hunt realizes that he was in prison at the time of their conception, but directs them to find another ex-boyfriend of Helen known as Sparkly P.  Unable to find Sparkly P, the brothers start driving for home. Along the way, they pick up a hitchhiker who provides advice as they travel. After accidentally parking on railroad tracks, Peter and the hitchhiker narrowly escape getting hit by a train, while Kyle is stuck in the car and presumably killed. Initially devastated, Peter is surprised to see Kyle walk away from the car, only to be punched by Kyle for abandoning him. As they are being treated, police officers recognize the name Sparkly P as a sting alias of Patrick O'Callaghan, a retired police officer in Worcester, Massachusetts. After dropping off the hitchhiker with his family in the same location, the brothers stop at a hotel where Peter falls for a girl named Sarah.  The brothers arrive at the house where there is a wake for Patrick. His daughter is invited to speak and Peter realizes that it is Sarah, his possible half-sister. Disgusted, Peter runs out of the wake. Patrick's twin brother Kevin clears things up by saying that Patrick can't be the father as he didn't believe in premarital sex, though Kevin directs them to the next of Helen's ex-boyfriends named Dr. Walter Tinkler. The brothers recall that Dr. Tinkler is a family friend and veterinarian in their home town.  Returning home, Kyle and Peter confront Dr. Tinkler in his office. After being called down, Helen arrives and reveals that she is not their biological mother. She and Dr. Tinkler had been working at a shelter when a young woman came in and gave birth. The woman died during childbirth and Helen chose to adopt Kyle and Peter instead of having them separated by social services. Helen also reveals she never knew their father at all. The brothers are happy to have learned their history.  One year later, Kyle, Peter, and Helen are on vacation in Maui. Peter is now dating Sarah and Ethan respects him. Kyle and Kaylani have twin daughters. The brothers have gone into business together and created an app that provides positive advice from the universe spoken by the hitchhiker.