In Hell's Kitchen 1978, three women are married to members of the O'Carroll crime family. Kathy is married to Jimmy, a kind man who is increasingly disillusioned with the mob; Ruby is married to Kevin, the son of boss Helen O'Carroll; and Claire is married to Rob, who frequently beats and abuses her.  One night, the men are arrested in a sting by FBI agents and are each sentenced to three years in prison. Jack "Little Jackie" Quinn assumes Kevin's role in the family and assures the wives that they'll be cared for, but provides them barely enough to live on. When the women discover that many of the businesses that pay the family protection money are upset with Little Jackie forcing them to pay more, they persuade the owners to start paying them instead and provide other favors for their neighbors, making a profit and earning the respect of the community. Jackie finds out and confronts the women, but is subsequently assassinated by Gabriel O'Malley, a disgraced Irish mob enforcer called in by Ruby. With Jackie out of the way and Gabriel backing them up, the women effectively control the family, while Gabriel and Claire begin a relationship.  After successfully "persuading" the local Jewish community to only hire Irish American Union workers to construct their buildings, the women are ordered to meet with Alfonso Coretti, the head of Brooklyn's Italian Mafia who is furious with Irish Americans encroaching on his territory. He insists that they start dealing with him and reveals that their husbands are set to be released in four months, which they hadn't realized. Knowing that they are in a precarious position, Coretti says he'll support them and split control of the city in return for Italian Americans getting construction jobs in Hell's Kitchen. The women agree knowing they have no other choice. Ruby subsequently kills Helen in a rage when she learns that her mother-in-law disapproves of her being married to Kevin and would almost certainly force him to divorce her when he returns.  Four months pass and the husbands are released; Kevin is determined to reassert his power as Helen's heir, Jimmy pressures Kathy to help him leave their life of crime and start over, and Rob is furious that Claire has left him for Gabriel. When Rob strikes Claire for refusing to take him back, she pulls a gun from under her pillow and kills him. Coretti then contacts the women and warns them that Kevin, backed by other members of the family, has ordered them to be whacked for the deaths of Helen and Rob. Ruby then pays the Coretti family to have her husband and his friends murdered, but Kathy makes her drop Colin, whom she is fond of, from the list. The hit goes through, but Claire is then killed by Colin in an act of revenge.  After Claire's funeral, Kathy realizes that Ruby has been secretly keeping an FBI agent on the family's payroll. Ruby explains that she set up their husbands to be arrested, as Kevin refused to let her have a role in the family. Kathy later finds that Jimmy is being sheltered by the Coretti family and taken their children with him out of anger for Kathy not respecting his wishes and not treating him as an equal in their relationship. Feeling betrayed, Kathy informs Coretti that her husband no longer has the family's protection, and Jimmy is whacked.  Ruby asks Kathy to meet her so they can discuss what to do next. When Kathy arrives, she finds that Ruby is waiting with Gabriel to kill her so she can take over as sole boss. Having anticipated this, Kathy reconciles with the O'Carroll family and brings all of their muscle as backup to the meeting. Gabriel admits that with Claire dead, he no longer has any ties to the mob and deserts Ruby. Kathy tells Ruby that from now on, they will share the responsibility of leading the family. The film ends with Kathy and Ruby making plans to expand their territory to Uptown.