A band, consisting of leader Nick (Matt Sbeglia), Anton (Casey Smith), Johnny (Soomin Lee), Carlo (Jorgen Jorgensen) and the blind Robbie (Nick Thorp) decide to go camping in the woods to write five new songs. Upon arriving, they discover a sign reading "Don't Go in the Woods", however they ignore it and set up camp in a nearby clearing. While Nick and Carlo are collecting firewood, they find a hunting cabin that is full of weapons including a sledgehammer, however they ignore it and decide to break the group's cellphones to help with the creative process. Meanwhile, the band's manager Carson (Bo Boddie) arrives at the woods. While he tries to find the campsite he is attacked and killed.  As night falls, the group begin to, successfully, write new songs for their album. Nick tells the legend of a group of warriors who became stranded in the woods and resorted to cannibalism, with ultimately only one surviving. Soon after the band are joined by a group of their female friends including Nick's ex-girlfriend Ashley (Cassandra Lee Walker), Johnny's girlfriend Callie (Kate O'Malley), Melinda (Ali Tobia) and her foreign friend Sophie (Nuriya Aimaya) who speaks little English, Felicity (Gwynn Galitzen) and best friends Charlotte (Kira Gorelick) and Georgia (Alyssa Jang). While the rest of the band are happy to be joined, Nick is upset, knowing the group will become distracted from their songwriting. As the group drink and enjoy themselves, Charlotte becomes upset with Carlo's flirting and angrily leaves to go and stay in a motel. Georgia follows Charlotte and the pair wander back to the cars. As Charlotte gets in the driving seat, a sledgehammer begins to smash through the windscreen, with Georgia's severed arm being flung onto the hood. As Charlotte attempts to drive away, the window is smashed open and she is attacked.  The following morning, Nick wakes everyone up early, determined to get the girls to leave. Anton offers to walk the girls to the van, however upon arriving they find the battery dead and are forced to return to the camp. During the day, Nick and Ashley briefly reconcile after their recent break-up, but Nick decides to spend the day writing alone, annoyed at the band's lack of focus. At night, the band continue to write new music. Nick takes all of the girls cellphones and breaks them, despite their protests. While Anton is performing a song he wrote he becomes upset and leaves, angering Nick. Felicity decides to search for Anton, but she is brutally hit and killed with a sledgehammer. Johnny and Callie also leave the campsite to make out, and are beaten to death.  The following day Melinda and Sophie go on a walk by the river. As Melinda helps Sophie improve her English, the killer arrives and drags Melinda away, eventually killing her. Sophie rushes back to the campsite to warn the others, but can not due to the language barrier, only confusing the others. The killer arrives again and kills Sophie, Carlo and Robbie. Meanwhile, Ashley runs into Nick as she is trying to escape the woods. However, Nick begins to play a song with his guitar instead of running. Ashley then notices blood all over Nick's hands, and realizes he is the killer. Ashley runs away and discovers Anton impaled through the neck. Nick catches up with her and cuts her back open, leaving her to die.  As the movie ends, a record producer (Eric Bogosian) congratulates Nick on his album, titled Don't Go in the Woods, telling him it was a good idea to "get rid of the band".