In July 2010, vacationing couple Joe and Lisa are on their way to visit Joe’s grandparents documenting their trip by camcorder only to arrive finding a locked gate. Joe finally gets the property gate open. They arrive at the house to find a note on the door that his grandparents are away for a couple of days. Joe locates the hidden house keys and they enter the house, explore the yard and his grandfather's classic Oldsmobile Cutlass in the garage. Later that evening Joe proposes to Lisa and they get engaged. Joe attempts to explain to Lisa how his grandfather always kept him away from the backyard shed when he was younger.  That night, Joe surveys his grandfather's old shed with a chained door far in the backyard. Joe hears a loud humming noise in the shed and later finally breaks into the shed with Lisa finding old military technology running and news clippings of the 1947 Roswell UFO incident. Joe finds a large, sealed crate but does not open it. The next night Joe and Lisa return to the shed, Joe opens the crate only to find a flashing light and a lifeless Alien. Scared, they quickly run back to the house and argue about calling the authorities. Fearing for his grandfather's life, Joe calls the FBI to report the alien discovery. One FBI agent shows up and to their surprise don’t believe them.  Later that night they decide to leave the premises. Joe returns to the shed to seal it and cover the evidence. They pack the car and Joe notices he left the keys in the shed, leaving Lisa alone at the car while he returns to the shed to find the keys. Lisa sees an alien life form in the flashlight, screams and runs to Joe. More aliens appear and pursue the couple. A bright light supposedly being an alien spacecraft appears, Lisa falls and breaks her leg, and Joe is knocked out. Lisa is dragged away and abducted by the aliens that leave on the ship. Joe wakes up later saved from the attack and calls for Lisa. Joe runs to the garage to escape in the Cutlass only to find the steering wheel locked, runs back to the yard only to bump into the same FBI agent now with his partner observing while Joe begs for help. Joe is knocked out by an unseen force, the camera falls to the ground and the FBI agent steps on it ending the footage.  After the text has rolled by, a short additional view is seen, displaying something in a black plastic bag with something looking like tufts of hair sticking out one of its corners, before the film ends, this time completely.