Monica Reeves, a high school senior, is determined to become prom queen and is planning to go to MIT or a state university. She prepares herself the day before prom so she can save time when it comes, and thinks nothing will go wrong. On the big day, however, she wakes up with a bad hair day, and everything that can go wrong does: Her prom dress is destroyed, and her shoes break.  Monica answers the door to a woman claiming to be an FBI agent. The woman, Liz Morgan, seeks a necklace that Monica purchased at an antique shop, wanting to recover it and get her job back. In verifying Liz's credentials, Monica discovers that Liz is not actually an FBI agent but a private investigator. Monica smartly deduces Liz's claim, and she coaxes Liz into giving her a ride around town to fix her hair, replace her outfit, and take her to get driving lessons in exchange for the necklace.  Prom day goes from bad to worse as the pair is pursued by Pierce Peters, an intelligent British jewel thief who is also pursuing the diamond to give it to a buyer. Meanwhile, Monica finds that she cannot get an appointment to fix her hair or replace her dress and shoes. Furthermore, her supposed boyfriend Kyle has been cheating on her with her school rival, Ashley, who is also running for prom queen.  After Liz tries to retaliate by scaring Monica's boyfriend with an arrest on trumped-up charges, Liz gets arrested and Monica learns that Liz is a suspended police officer who has been scolded by the police chief from her department who is also her mother after her previous failures in catching Pierce. While Liz is being scolded, Monica meets her former partner, Ed.  Afterward, Liz confesses that the necklace had a priceless diamond that was on display at a museum that was stolen by Peters, a crime she felt guilty for allowing to take place, as she believed that she could handle it without calling for backup. The diamond was on the verge of being sold to a shady buyer wearing "the safari look," but was passed along to someone else by mistake with a similar look and subsequently lost in various exchanges.  When the time comes to take her driving lesson, Monica talks the instructor and Liz into letting them use her car, named Brando, when suddenly they encounter Pierce and are taken on a wild ride throughout the city. After Monica fails her driving lesson and Liz gets her car towed away, they argue over their predicament, splitting the two of them up. Pierce makes a phone call to Monica, informing her that he kidnapped her father. Monica and Liz work together to get the car back.  Arriving at Pierce's hideout, Liz states that she can't transfer to another police station to get away from the police chief because the police chief is her mother. Monica and Liz are lured into a trap by Pierce, but they outsmart him. After being tasered by Liz, Pierce is arrested by the police. Liz calls for backup.  In the end, Liz is reinstated on the force by her mother. Liz then sorts out Monica's hair and clothes. Monica and Liz go to the prom (with a full police procession), where Monica is told that she has been voted prom queen after her ex-boyfriend's infidelity went viral. Monica tells the crowd that being perfect is overrated, and all enjoy the night. She also decides to go to MIT.