Government research scientist Henry "Hank" Howard has been commissioned by General Darwin to develop a serum that will enhance the user's strength and longevity. Howard wishes to marry Darwin's daughter Hannah, but Darwin sternly refuses to give him his blessing, saying he will not be allowed to marry her until he gets results from the serum test. That night, he goes on a date with Hannah to a carnival. They then take the subway, wherein a mugger approaches them at gunpoint and steals Howard's wallet and the ring he plans to propose to Hannah with. Not wanting to lose the ring, Howard attempts to fight the mugger, but is overpowered. After the mugger flees, Hannah expresses her concern for Howard's sudden bravery, asking what could be so important that he would risk his life over. In order to hide the intended proposal, Howard lies, saying the mugger took a flash drive containing secret files about the serum.  In an effort to prove that his serum is effective, Howard injects himself with it, turning him into a giant purple humanoid, the Bulk. Later that night, while witnessing the same mugger assault and murder a young woman, Howard transforms into the Bulk and kills the man; he runs off as police arrive to the scene, and they notice purple blood on the ground. Detectives Ray Garton and Lisa Tuttle find Howard's wallet and return it to him the next day. When Garton finds a purple stain on his hand, he deduces that Howard is responsible for the mugger's death. They watch as Howard returns to the scene of the crime, and when they confront him, he transforms into the Bulk.  The Bulk goes on a rampage throughout the city as the detectives pursue him. During the chase, the Bulk sends cars flying through the air, one of which lands on Tuttle, crushing her to death. Garton, enraged by his partner's death, shoots at the Bulk, who grabs and destroys a news helicopter. The Bulk morphs back into Howard and is arrested by Garton. In prison, Howard is confronted by Garton for inadvertently killing Tuttle.  Darwin visits Howard and injects him with a sedative and takes him to a secret facility, where he performs some experiments on Howard to analyse the results of the serum. Darwin also informs Howard that he will give him both full permission to marry Hannah and an antidote if he agrees to go as the Bulk and take down a mad scientist named Dr. Werner von Kantlove, who has been destroying famous monuments and landmarks and is currently plotting to blow up the moon. At Werner's castle, Howard transforms into the Bulk and kills Werner, his guards, and his dim-witted wife, Lolita Kantlove.  The Bulk turns back into Howard and calls Darwin to tell him that he took down Werner, but Darwin betrays Howard and reveals that he lied about a cure to the serum. Darwin also reveals that the project was funded by Werner, who wanted to use the serum to cure his erectile dysfunction, after the government stopped funding it two years ago, and when Howard proved the serum to be a success, Darwin decided that Werner was no longer needed, hence why he sent the Bulk to eliminate him. Darwin declares his plan to use the serum to create a super-human soldier army and sends the military to execute Howard. Howard turns into the Bulk and a lengthy chase ensues, ending with a nuclear bomb being dropped on the Bulk. Hannah comes in and Darwin tells her that Howard died saving the world from Werner.  That night, Hannah wakes up to discover Howard at her house, having survived the bombing. He proposes to her, and Hannah accepts. Howard tries to warn Hannah about Darwin's true nature, but she doesn't believe him. Darwin sees that Howard has survived, and the two break into a struggle and fall off a balcony, killing Darwin and seemingly Howard. Later, Hannah visits Howard's grave and leaves a rose there. After she leaves, a drunken Garton arrives at the grave. He begins to urinate on it, and the Bulk's fists strike his head.