Irwin Maurice "Fletch" Fletcher is apparently sent to Boston from Italy by his girlfriend Angela to recover her father’s multimillion-dollar art collection. The paintings were stolen and are in the possession of an American art dealer named Ronald Horan. Angela’s father is an Italian billionaire count who was apparently kidnapped by a mob demanding his paintings as ransom.  As Fletch arrives in a rented town house in Boston, he finds a dead woman, subsequently identified as barista Laurel Goodwin. Despite being the one who called the police, Fletch becomes the prime suspect in Goodwin's murder. Sergeant Inspector Monroe and Junior Detective Griz of the Boston Police Department begin tailing Fletch.   Fletch meets with Horan under a fake name in an attempt to locate the paintings. Fletch learns from his neighbor Eve that Owen, the town house owner, has a history of violence and drug abuse and an estranged spouse named Tatiana, who used to be his business partner. Fletch meets with Tatiana, again using a fake name, and suspects that she is the killer. Meanwhile, the Countess, Angela’s stepmother, invites herself to stay with Fletch. Angela is not happy with this development; she suspects that the Countess and her brother kidnapped the Count. Angela arrives in Boston and initially appears to be friendly with the Countess.  At dinner that night, Fletch, the Countess, and Angela are visited by Owen, Tatiana, and Eve. Laurel Goodwin’s boyfriend arrives and tries to kill Fletch. When the boyfriend is distracted by Eve's dog, Fletch snatches his gun and learns that Angela knows and was in contact with Owen. Angela abruptly leaves in the middle of the evening.  Fletch follows Angela to a meeting with Horan on his sailboat. Fletch assumes that Angela stole the paintings and transferred them to Horan to sell. Horan reveals that he killed Laurel Goodwin and framed Fletch to eliminate him from the painting transaction. Horan planned to deceive Angela and pay off his debts by selling the Count's art collection. Horan pulls a gun and tries to kill Fletch, but is shot dead by Griz.   The Count, who faked his kidnapping with Fletch's help as a test of his wife and daughter's love, returns and persuades Fletch to keep the paintings. Fletch, from an undisclosed location in Latin America, sends paintings to Eve, his previous boss, and two street artists, and a large check to the boyfriend of Laurel Goodwin.