Dog of Flanders (フランダースの犬, Furandāsu no Inu) is a 1975 Japanese anime television series adaptation of Ouida's 1872 novel of the same name, produced by Nippon Animation. 52 episodes were produced.[1] A film version was released in 1997.

The series represents the bond between a boy and his ever so faithful dog living in a 19th century Flanders village near Antwerp. The emotional story shows the boy's struggles in life as his grandfather dies and leaves him with his dog. It shows how the hopes of becoming a great classical painter have been seemingly crushed by his grandfather's passing and the way he takes after that tragedy.

The anime series is notable for being the first official entry in the World Masterpiece Theater series (Calpis Children's Theater at the time).

The animators conducted extensive research on 19th century Flanders,[citation needed] although it has to be said that a lot of features in the series are not Flemish but typically Dutch (the girl's hat and the tulips for example).[citation needed] The buildings depicted in the series were modeled after the Bokrijk open-air museum.[citation needed] Although there have been some changes from the original story by Marie Louise de la Ramée, it has been faithful in keeping the storyline accurate.

Isao Takahata and Hayao Miyazaki also worked on the series, respectively as storyboard artist and key animator for episode 15.

Dog of Flanders aired on Fuji TV between January 5 and December 28, 1975. Having gone into production before Zuiyo Eizo and Nippon Animation division, episodes #1–26 of the anime were still originally credited to Zuiyo and broadcast in the Calpis Comic Theater series. In subsequent DVD releases Calpis Children's Theater title card was kept in all 52 episodes.[2][3]

A feature film remake of the series, titled The Dog of Flanders or The Dog of Flanders: The Movie (劇場版 フランダースの犬, Gekijōban Furandāsu no Inu) was released in March 1997. It was distributed by Shochiku. It grossed ¥243,543,645 at the box office. The film was released on VHS in 1999 and later released on DVD in March 2000.

Nello Tarth is a poor but happy orphan who lives with his grandfather Jehan in a little village nearby Antwerp. Nello has a talent for drawing pictures and has been fascinated by it since he saw one of Rubens' pictures as a little boy. Helping Jehan with the daily milk delivery to Antwerp, Nello one day discovers Patrash, a working dog who has been mistreated and abandoned by his former owner. He treats the exhausted animal and after a little while a close and dependable friendship develops. Alois Cojez, the daughter of the richest and hence most influential man in Blacken Village, is Nello's best friend. When Nello decides to become an artist he has to experience first hand the ignorance and cruelty of the villagers. Especially Alois' father thinks of him as a slacker who cannot earn his living by drawing pictures. Nonetheless Nello perseveres and never gives up to achieve his dream and to win their appreciation and respect while strenuously struggling with his poverty.

Voices for orphan children provided by Jessica Evans, Dylan Hart, Sophie Lechken, Alex Mandelberg, Bryce Papenbrook.

The main opening theme song "Yoake-no Michi" (よあけのみち) has always been popular in Japan since the series' debut. It was featured in a daydream sequence in the live action adaptation of Nodame Cantabile, starring Juri Ueno and Hiroshi Tamaki, with the character of Nodame singing the song while taking a bath. It was also used in the anime adaptation of Re:Zero -Starting Life in Another World- as protagonist Subaru Natsuki's ringtone.[4] Both the opening and ending themes were composed by Takeo Watanabe and written by Eriko Kishida.

A series of trailers for the 2023 video game Resident Evil 4 that parodied Dog of Flanders were released to coincide with the game's release.[5]