The Occupation of the American Mind sought to show how Israeli attacks on Palestinians provoked widespread protests around the world, while the United States remained steadfast in its support for Israel despite the crimes committed.  The documentary begins with screening the 2014 war in Gaza in which Israel dropped nearly 20,000 tons of explosives on Gaza in 51 days, killing more than 2,000 Palestinians, injuring tens of thousands, the vast majority civilians. According to the Washington Report, the film continues to show that after a public reaction to the 1982 attack on Lebanon, Israel commissioned Frank Luntz, an American public relations adviser who had helped influence Republican campaigns, "to come up with a strategy to sell Israeli military actions to the Americans who bankroll it." This report further argues that Luntz created a "Global Language Dictionary that is still used today to frame the Israeli narrative." He advised Israeli supporters to "always portray Israeli military action as self-defense. Speakers should focus on terror, not territory." According to this report, Luntz realized that "Israel couldn’t make heart-rending photos from Lebanon and Gaza go away, but it could saturate the media with talking points to make Americans believe that Palestinians deserved whatever Israel hit them with." According to the experts interviewed in the documentary, any criticism of Israel is labeled antisemitic, and only self-hating Jews do not approve of apartheid and the occupation of Palestinian land. The report further states: "When a reporter, like Ayman Mohyeldin from NBC, shows empathy for children slaughtered playing ball on the beach, supporters are asked to demand that he is removed from Gaza. When Bob Simon or Mike Wallace dare to criticize Israel on 60 Minutes they are described as self-hating Jews."  A CNN / ORC poll conducted in 2014 found that 40 percent of Americans believed that Israel was using excessive force against the people of Gaza. Sut Jhally who was interviewed in the film, says;