Rose Lorkowski is a 30-something single mother and full-time house cleaner. Her underachieving and unreliable sister Norah, lives with their father Joe and is fired from her most current job. Rose's hyperactive and disruptive 8-year-old son Oscar upsets his school officials with his erratic behavior. They tell Rose to put him on medication or send him to a private school. Unable to earn enough with her current job, Rose asks Mac, her former high-school boyfriend and now-married lover, for advice. Mac recommends a crime scene cleanup job, using his connections as a police officer to get Rose and Norah into the business.  At first, the sisters are unaware how to properly perform their job, are unlicensed, and carelessly handle hazardous materials by throwing them into dumpsters instead of properly disposing of bio-waste in an incinerator. Needing to operate as a more reputable service, the sisters get the necessary tools from Winston, a one-armed storekeeper of a shop for cleanup material, who helps the sisters. The sisters name their business "Sunshine Cleaning" and their reputation grows. They begin to find meaning in their function to "help" in some way in the aftermath of a loss or disaster, even though the job stirs recollections of their own mother's suicide. At the same time, family members deal with their individual problems. Rose encounters some of her former high school classmates and is embarrassed by her low status in life. After an encounter with Mac's pregnant wife in a gas station, where the cheated-upon wife mocks Rose's post-high school life, Rose realizes that Mac will never leave his wife, and ends their relationship. Norah meets and has a relationship with Lynn, the daughter of a woman whose house they cleaned. Joe (who makes exaggerated promises) begins to sell shrimp independently, hoping to raise enough money to buy expensive binoculars Oscar wants for his birthday.  One day, an insurance company hires Sunshine Cleaning, giving the sisters a possible breakthrough for gaining steady lucrative jobs. Unfortunately for Rose, a baby shower is on the same day, with all her more prosperous high school classmates attending. She asks Norah to clean the house alone until she can catch up. Norah bungles her solitary cleaning assignment, as she accidentally burns down the house with an unattended candle. Their business reputation is tarnished and saddles them with a $40,000 debt which the sisters cannot pay. Sunshine Cleaning goes out of business, and Rose returns to being a house cleaner. Meanwhile, Joe's shrimp plan goes awry as stores and restaurants refuse to buy from an unlicensed food distributor for health and safety reasons. Joe failed to realize legitimate businesses would be unwilling to buy food from a questionable source.  Lynn breaks off her relationship with Norah as she questions whether Norah was truly interested in her at all. At Oscar's birthday party, Norah apologizes to Rose, and despite still being mad, Rose forgives her. The family then celebrate Oscar's birthday with Winston, who seems quite taken with Rose.  Sometime later, Rose visits her father who says he's sold his house and with the money has started a new cleanup business named Lorkowski Cleaning. He asks Rose to be the knowledgeable managing partner, and she agrees. Norah finally shows independence by going on a road trip to find her new self, while Rose starts working with her father.