In Seattle, Washington, a dog named Enzo (named after Enzo Ferrari) is dying. The old Golden Retriever is waiting for Denny, his master and best friend, to return. When he arrives home, Denny finds Enzo unable to move. Denny then picks up Enzo and tells him that he would always be there for him. Enzo then recalls a documentary he saw about belief in Mongolia that when a dog dies, they will return as a man. He is aware that all of his memories will go away, but he vows to find Denny again. The dog then begins to narrate his life.  Years prior, Denny buys a puppy after racing at a speedway in Yakima, Washington. He immediately bonds with the puppy, and names him Enzo. Denny divides his time between teaching auto racing and caring for Enzo, while also trying to pursue a career as a race driver.  A year later, Denny meets Eve at the supermarket. They begin to strike conversations with each other, and she shares about how she teaches English as a second language. Enzo, then tries to get Denny to leave, but is unsuccessful when Denny invites Eve to a concert that his friends are performing at.  A few weeks later, they began to date. Eve starts to show up to more of Denny’s races, even though she knew nothing about it. It became apparent to Enzo that she was not going anywhere by springtime.  Denny never tired at pleasing Eve, and their relationship escalates at an increasing rate. Enzo then begins to envy Eve. One day, Eve is alone with Enzo, and she tells him about how much she loves Denny. Enzo is not surprised, as he can’t do anything about it.  Denny and Eve marry the following year at her parents mansion on Mercer Island, Washington. Eve's mother, Trish, is supportive, but her father, Maxwell, doesn't fully approve of Denny due to his career as a race driver with the risks of injury.  Shortly after, Eve becomes pregnant. On Christmas Day, Denny receives an invitation to drive in the 24 Hours of Daytona in February, which unfortunately takes place close to Eve's due date. Denny hesitates about the invitation, due to the timing. Eve insists that he should go, as she believes that many doors would open for them if he did well. He then decides to go to race. Eve gives birth at home with 2 midwives as Enzo is watching TV in the adjacent room that shows Denny racing in Florida, thus missing the birth.  Enzo then meets Eve and Denny’s newborn daughter, Zoë, and Eve tells her that Enzo will always be there to protect her. Days later, Denny arrives from Daytona, and meets his daughter for the first time. He then regrets leaving, as he missed the chance, but Eve tells him that there was nothing to be mad about, and that he was here now. Denny then shares to Eve that his team lost the race, after another racer, who was in a lot of press, failed the last lap of the race after crashing into the wall. Denny says that he is okay with the loss, as more races would come.  Eve’s parents began to visit more often, and Maxwell confronts Denny on the risks of being injured or killed when racing, as he has just became a father. Denny however, says that he will always put his safety first if it means losing every race he enters.  A few years pass and family life is idyllic for Enzo, while Denny spends prolonged periods away from home to race. Denny then tells Eve that he was invited to race at Laguna Seca, but is hesitant because of the feeling of treading water. Enzo, witnessing the moment, is shocked that Denny thought about quitting racing.  Eve begins to fall seriously ill and Enzo can smell a ‘rotting wood’ odor coming from her head. She is diagnosed with brain cancer, with she and Zoë living with her parents during her treatment. Resigned to her fate, Eve admits to Enzo that she is no longer afraid of death and passes away while he watches on.  Maxwell blames Denny's absence for Eve's illness, so demands custody of Zoë, threatening to sue if Denny does not comply. Furious at Maxwell's revelation of his absence over Zoë's birth, Denny attempts to leave but is grabbed by Maxwell, who falls and breaks a rib in the scuffle. Maxwell reports the incident to the police and Denny is arrested for 4th-degree assault. If he loses the case, Denny faces a 3-month jail sentence plus his in-laws taking permanent custody of his daughter.  Denny continues to race and is offered a job in Maranello testing prototypes for Ferrari, which he has to decline due to his case; he promises that if his case turns out in his favor, he will accept the offer.  A frustrated Denny goes jogging in the rain with Enzo. Struggling to keep pace in his old age, Enzo attempts to follow Denny across a street but is hit by a car. Denny rushes him to an animal hospital where the vet explains that Enzo is lucky to be alive and may suffer from hip dysplasia in the near future.  Exhausted of money and patience, Denny agrees to an out-of-court settlement, giving up custody of Zoë in exchange for visitation and the dropping of the assault charge. However, Enzo grabs the legal document, runs outside and rips it to shreds, convincing Denny to keep fighting. The trial begins and Trish, feeling guilty, admits the truth about the incident while under oath; the charges are dropped, Denny calls the Ferrari representative and takes the job.  When Maxwell and Trish show up at Zoë's ninth birthday party, Denny is very forgiving, wanting them both in Zoë's life.  Over the next few weeks, Enzo's health rapidly deteriorates. Realizing that the end is near, Denny arranges to drive him around the track where he used to teach. Enzo laments that he will not be able to travel to Italy or care for his family but insists that he has enjoyed a good life. He recalls a television documentary which showcased Mongolian beliefs that after dogs die, some are reincarnated as a human. Enzo explains that he is looking forward to his new life.  Eight years later, Denny, now a successful Formula One driver for Scuderia Ferrari, is living in Italy with Zoë. Denny is introduced to a young fan with golden hair who asks for an autograph. He agrees, discovering the boy's name is Enzo. Denny smiles and tells the father that the boy reminds him of an old friend and tells him to bring the boy to him when his father thinks he is ready to race.