Rachel Chu, a professor of economics at New York University, and her boyfriend Nick Young travel to Singapore for the wedding of Nick’s best friend Colin Khoo and Araminta Lee. The following day, Rachel visits her college roommate Goh Peik Lin and her wealthy family, who reveal that Nick's family is extremely wealthy and akin to royalty in Singapore. Later that evening, Rachel and Peik Lin arrive at the sprawling Young family estate for a dinner party. Nick introduces Rachel to his mother Eleanor, while his cousin Astrid Leong-Teo discovers that her husband Michael, who comes from a more humble background than the Youngs, has been having an affair. Rachel immediately senses that Eleanor dislikes her. Nick then introduces her to his grandmother, matriarch Shang Su Yi, who takes a liking to Rachel.   At Araminta's bachelorette party, Rachel meets Amanda Ling, who reveals she is Nick's ex-girlfriend and tells Rachel that she may face rejection by the Youngs due to her modest background; Rachel is also accused of being a gold digger. Meanwhile, Nick attends Colin's bachelor party and reveals his plan to propose to Rachel. Colin expresses concern about the potential conflicts: apart from their class difference, Nick is expected to stay in Singapore and run his family's corporation, whereas Rachel loves her job in New York City. Nick apologizes to Rachel for not telling her who he really is and takes her back to the Young estate to make dumplings. Eleanor recounts her sacrifices to be a part of the family and calls out Rachel's stereotypically American pursuit of passion. She privately recounts to Rachel how Nick's father had to obtain her engagement ring because Su Yi disapproved of her and refused to give him the family ring, and tells Rachel that she will never be enough for Nick or his family.   Peik Lin convinces Rachel to stand up to Eleanor and earn her respect. On the day of the wedding, Peik Lin and Oliver T’sien, Nick’s second cousin, give Rachel a glamorous makeover. Meanwhile, en route to the wedding, Astrid confronts Michael, who blames his infidelity on the financial disparity between them. At the afterparty, Eleanor and Su Yi privately confront Rachel and Nick because via a private investigator they learned that Rachel's father is alive, and she was conceived through an extramarital affair, after which her mother Kerry fled to the United States. They demand that Nick stop seeing Rachel for fear of scandal. The shocked and heartbroken Rachel, whose mother told her that her father was dead, flees to Peik Lin's home, remaining in a depressed stupor.  Kerry later arrives upon request by Nick, explaining that her abusive husband led to the comfort of an old classmate who then impregnated her; she fled in fear that her husband would kill them. Nick apologizes to Rachel and proposes, willing to abandon his family to be with her, but Rachel rejects. She then meets Eleanor at a mahjong parlor and points out that Eleanor has created a stalemate: Nick can forsake Rachel and remain dutiful but resentful of his family, or he can forsake his family for love. Making use of her expertise in game theory, she hands Eleanor the mahjong tile that lets her win, and reveals that she could have kept the tile for herself and claimed victory. Having thus demonstrated her willingness to place family over self, she leaves with Kerry to the airport. Meanwhile, Astrid moves out with her son Cassian, and tells Michael that his insecurities caused their marriage to fail. Eleanor gives her blessing to Nick and Rachel by giving Nick her ring, which Nick uses to propose to Rachel on the plane before her flight departs. Rachel accepts and they stay in Singapore for an engagement party. There, Astrid and her ex-boyfriend Charlie Wu spot each other; she discreetly smiles.