In the Arctic waters near the Helheim Glacier in Greenland, a person is surfing on waves created by falling chunks of ice that fall off the glacier and into the ocean caused by the effects of global warming. However, a very large chunk of ice falls into the water, creating an especially large wave. The surfer tries to escape from the wave, but it is far too fast for him, and in a matter of seconds, it catches up to him and then drowns and kills him. United States Coast Guard Captain James Maine, is sent to investigate in Greenland. While he is there with Dr. Kim Patterson (Brooke Burns), a huge chunk of ice falls into the ocean.  On 10 April 2012, 100 years after the departure of the RMS Titanic on its maiden voyage, a new, similar-looking luxury cruise liner, the RMS Titanic II, is christened. She embarks on her maiden voyage using the same route the Titanic took 100 years before, albeit in reverse direction (from New York City to Southampton). The ship's captain Will Howard (D.C. Douglas) is in command. The ship's designer, Hayden Walsh (Shane Van Dyke), and the ship's nurses Amy Maine (Marie Westbrook) and Kelly Wade (Michelle Glavan) are on board.  During the Atlantic crossing, the crew is alerted of the tsunami by James Maine. Maine warns that any ice in the area will be moved with the tsunami. In a rush to get back to shore, one of the engines is damaged. Immediately following, the wave and a large iceberg ram into the ship, leaving many passengers injured. The entire starboard side of the ship and the starboard lifeboat ramps are crushed. Hayden and Amy return below decks and find Kelly badly injured. The three escape and move towards the upper decks.  Meanwhile, back up north, a much larger tsunami is created by yet another glacier. During the evacuation, immense pressure is placed on the ship's turbines, causing it to eventually explode, killing many passengers and crew, including the ship captain Will Howard. The explosion also causes an immense fire on the Titanic II, which is sinking by its bow (similar to the first Titanic) while also listing at a shallow angle to its starboard side.  Amy gets a call from her father, who warns her of the second wave and to stay out of the lifeboats, as they will be washed away by the wave. Maine orders the three to move to the ship's onboard diving facility. Kelly is later killed when a very heavy door crushes her. Hayden and Amy make it to the diving facility when they hear somebody trapped. They try to help him, but he dies behind a jammed door. When Hayden and Amy go inside the diving facility, the second wave hits the ship, capsizing it, and destroying the lifeboats.  The ship's diving facility only has one oxygen tank and scuba suit, which Hayden gives to Amy. Before sacrificing his life for her, Hayden kisses Amy and with his last words tells her to resuscitate him should he drown before they are rescued. Captain Maine arrives to rescue Amy and Hayden by swimming inside the ship as it sinks. His helicopter runs out of fuel and crashes as Patterson gets in a life raft. With the ship flooded, Titanic II finally sinks. After James rescues them, Amy attempts to resuscitate Hayden but it's too late. Amy, and an unknown number of injured passengers whom Hayden ordered his helicopter to take (earlier in the film) are the only known survivors of the disaster.