Newly paroled con artist Debbie Ocean, Danny Ocean's younger sister, convinces former partner in crime Lou, who is now working at a bar, to join her in a new heist. They assemble their team: once-famous, now dead-end fashion designer Rose Weil, who owes the IRS; jewelry maker Amita, who vies for more independence from her mother; security hacker Nine Ball; street hustler and pickpocket Constance; and profiteer Tammy, who fences stolen goods out of her suburban home.  Debbie plans to steal the Toussaint, a $150 million Cartier necklace, during the upcoming Met Gala, using the host, famous film star Daphne Kluger, as an unwitting accomplice. The team manipulates Daphne into hiring Rose and convinces Cartier to loan her the Toussaint. Rose and Amita go to Cartier and digitally scan the necklace to manufacture a cubic zirconia replica.   Nine Ball works on creating a blindspot on the museum's security cameras to move the necklace. Tammy secures a temporary coordinator position at Vogue and gains access to the gala's seating plan, as well as getting Lou hired as a nutritionist for the event, while Debbie leads Daphne to invite art dealer Claude Becker, whose betrayal sent Debbie to prison in the first place, as her date. Lou confronts Debbie for planning revenge against Becker, but she reassures her that it will not jeopardize their plan.  When Rose learns the Toussaint can only be unclasped by a special magnet carried by Cartier's security detail, Nine Ball enlists her younger sister Veronica's help in creating a duplicate. At the gala, Lou spikes Daphne's soup, causing her to rush to the women's bathroom. As the male Cartier guards wait outside and Daphne vomits into a toilet, Constance deftly removes the necklace from her neck and sneaks it to Amita, who splits it into smaller pieces of jewelry in the kitchen bathroom.   When Daphne reappears with the necklace missing, the museum is sealed and a search of the premises and guests commences. It ends, however, when Tammy "finds" the duplicate necklace just as Amita is about to be caught. Constance slips the Toussaint pieces to the team to smuggle out, and Debbie plants a piece of it on Becker. After the heist, Daphne joins the ladies, revealing that she already knew about the robbery by analyzing their actions. She asks for the eighth cut in exchange for saving them from jail.  When the fake necklace is returned to Cartier, the switch is discovered, and insurance investigator John Frazier is assigned to investigate Cartier's claim. Having crossed paths with and sent members of the Ocean family to prison before, Frazier immediately suspects Debbie, but her careful presence on the gala's video footage gives her an unbeatable alibi. She negotiates with him to hand him the thief as well as a part of the necklace.   Daphne visits Becker and sends Frazier a picture of the jewel Debbie planted. To further frame him, Debbie hires actresses posing as elderly socialites to sell parts of the Toussaint off piece by piece and deposit the money into an account in Becker's name. Becker is taken into custody.  As the eight celebrate their success, Lou reveals the heist's true target: while the gala was being evacuated, she and The Amazing Yen, the acrobat who worked with Danny, replaced a Metropolitan Museum of Art display of royal jewels loaned by European royal families with replicas assembled by Amita, escaping with more gems even more valuable than the Toussaint.  With their payouts from the score much larger than previously promised, each member of the team goes their separate ways: Amita travels to Paris with a man she meets on Tinder; Rose pays off her debts and opens her own store; Constance buys a spacious loft in the city and becomes a YouTuber; Tammy expands her business in stolen goods; Nine Ball opens a pool hall; Daphne becomes a film director (and is shown directing a lookalike); Lou takes her motorcycle on a scenic road trip; and Debbie mixes and enjoys a martini at Danny's grave, knowing he would be proud of her.