As Mother's Day nears, a group of seemingly-unconnected people in Atlanta come to terms with their relationships with their mothers.  Sandy is a divorced mother of two sons, Mikey and Peter, whose ex-husband, Henry has recently married a younger woman, Tina. Still getting used to this, she meets Bradley, a former Marine, in the supermarket. Bradley's wife Dana, a Marine Lieutenant, died a year previously, leaving him with their two daughters, Vicky and Rachel.  Kristin, adopted from birth, has her own daughter, Katie, and mulls over marrying the father of her child, Zack. She considers her life incomplete and her friend Jesse encourages her to search for her birth mother. Jesse also happens to be Sandy's best friend.  Jesse is married and has a son, Tanner, with Russell, who is Indian. Her sister Gabi is married to her wife Max and has a son, Charlie. When their racist, homophobic parents, Earl and Florence, unexpectedly show up, they have to come to terms with who their daughters are and the partners they have chosen.   As she's in Atlanta promoting her latest book, Miranda, an accomplished author and television personality, gets a surprise visit from Kristin, who is her daughter who she was forced to give her up for adoption at birth, as she was very young. Their making up leads to Kristin asking Zach to marry her on air and marrying on the same day, so Miranda can participate.  Jesse and Gabi's parents ambush them and their partners on their camper-van, and with Russell's mom's help through Skype, force him to make up with Jesse. Later on, the families including his mom, who flies in from Vegas, celebrate Mother's Day with a picnic in the park.  Sandy and Bradley meet again by chance in the hospital. She's there because of her younger son's asthma attack, he because of a mishap in the Mother's Day party he was throwing which ended with his going to the hospital for a broken leg. Helping her get unstuck from a vending machine, combined with his daughters' encouragement, Bradley finally starts to see her in a positive light.