In 2002, retired Hall of Fame Pittsburgh Steelers center Mike Webster is found dead in his pickup truck, after years of self-mutilation and homelessness. Before his death, fellow former football player Justin Strzelczyk confides in Webster that he is suffering from memory loss, is saying odd things to his children, and nearly threw his wife against the wall. Webster deliriously responds by reciting from his Hall of Fame induction speech, that the most important thing "all we have to do, is finish the game".  Bennet Omalu (Will Smith), a forensic pathologist with the Allegheny County, Pennsylvania coroner's office, handles Webster's autopsy. Wondering how an otherwise healthy man could have degenerated so quickly, he closely examines microscope slides of Webster's brain, seeing evidence of severe neurotrauma. He concludes that Webster died as a result of the long-term effects of repeated blows to the head, a disorder he terms chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).  With the help of former Steelers team doctor Julian Bailes, fellow neurologist Steven DeKosky and county coroner Cyril Wecht, Omalu publishes his findings in Neurosurgery, which are dismissed by the NFL. In subsequent years, Omalu discovers that Strzelczyk and two other deceased NFL players, Terry Long and Andre Waters, exhibited symptoms very similar to Webster's.  Omalu persuades newly appointed NFL commissioner Roger Goodell to allow him to present his findings before a player safety committee, but he is barred from the committee meeting, forcing former NFL employee Bailes to do the presentation in his place. The NFL does not take the findings seriously and claim the players' head trauma is unrelated to football. Former NFL Players Association executive Dave Duerson angrily confronts Omalu and tells him to "go back to Africa."  Omalu is subjected to considerable pressure to back down from his efforts, as football is a widely beloved sport in Pittsburgh, providing jobs and college opportunities. Wecht is subject to a politically motivated prosecution on corruption charges, and Omalu is threatened with deportation and a prison sentence on petty charges as punishment for tarnishing the NFL's image. His wife, Prema, suffers a miscarriage after being followed in her car. The Omalus are forced to leave their dream home outside Pittsburgh, relocating to Lodi, California where he takes a job with the San Joaquin County coroner's office.  Three years later, Omalu is vindicated when Duerson commits suicide due to his inability to cope with worsening cognitive function. In his suicide note, he acknowledges Omalu was right, and offers his brain for future research. The doctor is invited to address an NFLPA conference on concussions and CTE. He says that he once wished he had never known Mike Webster, but by knowing him, he has the responsibility to inform NFL players of the true risks they take by playing. He says that he holds no resentment for the NFL and tells them to forgive themselves and be at peace.  Amid growing scrutiny from Congress, the NFL is forced to take the concussion issue more seriously, and in 2011, NFL players sue the league for not properly informing them of the risk of CTE. Dr. Omalu is offered the job of Chief Medical Examiner for the District of Columbia, but Omalu turned the offer down to remain with his family in Lodi, becoming naturalized as a U.S. citizen in February 2015. A final montage includes reports of Junior Seau's suicide in 2012 and subsequent lawsuits brought against the NFL by thousands of former players.