In 2010, Ethiopian Jewish miners retrieve a rare black opal from the Welo mine in Ethiopia. In 2012, Howard Ratner runs the KMH jewelry store in New York City's Diamond District. A gambling addict, he struggles to pay off his debts, which includes $100,000 he owes to Arno, his loan shark brother-in-law. Howard's domestic life is split between his children and wife Dinah, who has agreed to divorce him after Passover, and his girlfriend Julia, a KMH employee.  Howard's business associate Demany brings basketball star Kevin Garnett to KMH. While he is there, the opal, which Howard had smuggled in, arrives. Garnett becomes obsessed with it, insisting on holding onto it for good luck at his game that night. Howard reluctantly agrees, demanding Garnett's 2008 NBA Championship ring as collateral. Howard quickly pawns the ring, placing a six-way parlay with his bookie on Garnett playing extraordinarily well, which he does.  The next day, Demany fails to return the opal as agreed, angering Howard. They travel to meet Garnett, who is hours away in Philadelphia, but Demany abandons Howard when they arrive. That night, Howard is ambushed at his daughter's school play by Arno and his hired henchmen, Phil and Nico. He learns Arno stopped his bet, which would have won him $600,000. Phil and Nico strip Howard naked and lock him in the trunk of his car, forcing him to call Dinah for help.  Howard meets Demany at a nightclub party hosted by R&B singer the Weeknd to retrieve the opal, only to find that Garnett still has it. Howard discovers Julia with the Weeknd and fights him, believing they were having sex. Howard demands Julia move out of his apartment.  Garnett returns the opal, offering to purchase it for $175,000, but Howard refuses, as he believes it is worth much more. Garnett demands his ring back, but Howard lies that he has it at his home. After Garnett leaves, Howard berates Demany for allowing Garnett to hold onto the opal for so long. Enraged, Demany trashes Howard's office.  After an awkward Passover dinner, Dinah rejects Howard's plea to give their marriage another chance. Just before the auction, Howard learns the opal is worth much less than his $1 million estimate. He convinces his father-in-law Gooey to bid to drive up the price, but the plan backfires when Garnett declines to top Gooey's final bid. A furious Gooey gives Howard the opal before Arno, Phil, and Nico assault him outside the auction house.  Howard returns to KMH, bloody and in tears. Julia comforts him and they reconcile. He retrieves Garnett's ring from the pawn shop, but because he failed to retrieve it in the allotted time, he's forced to exchange his prized 1973 Knicks ring for it. Garnett, still desiring the opal, pays Howard with cash at KMH. Instead of repaying his debt, Howard asks Julia to put the cash on a three-way parlay on Garnett having another strong performance in the day's game. Arno, Phil, and Nico arrive at the store and threaten Howard; Julia departs with the cash via helicopter to the Mohegan Sun casino to place the bet.  Refusing to call off the bet, Howard traps the men in-between the store's security doors. He watches the game on television, the Celtics win the game, earning Howard $1.2 million. Ecstatic, he frees Arno and his men, but an enraged Phil shoots Howard in the face, killing him instantly. Arno protests before attempting to escape, leading Phil to shoot him dead as well. Julia leaves the casino with Howard's winnings and Phil and Nico loot the store while police sirens are heard.