After defeating a new supervillain calling himself the Shocker, Peter Parker arrives late to a double date with his girlfriend Gwen Stacy and best friends Harry Osborn and Mary Jane Watson. After some initial friction due to his frequent absences, Peter plans to propose to Gwen during a planned vacation at the lake. However, Peter's arch-nemesis, the Green Goblin, arrives shortly thereafter, kidnapping Gwen and taking her unconscious body to the top of the George Washington Bridge. Peter, as his alter ego "Spider-Man", fails to save Gwen, resulting in a final battle between himself and the Goblin, resulting in the latter's death.  Sometime later, Peter has retired as Spider-Man, blaming himself for failing to save Gwen’s life and beginning to shut others out. Haunted by the dreams of the night Gwen died, Peter angrily confronts Mary Jane and Harry for not caring about Gwen’s passing. Though she is hurt, Mary Jane begrudgingly gives Peter a letter for him to give to Spider-Man, which asks if Spider-Man can pay a young child named Tim Harrison a visit before he succumbs to a terminal illness. Harry, despondent over his father's death and regretting the strained relationship the two of them had, leaves the city and goes on a bender, before returning to New York to visit his father's grave.  Peter arrives at the Harrison's apartment as Spider-Man, meeting and bonding with Tim, who sees Spider-Man as a hero in spite of what the press says about him. However, when questioned about what happened to "the girl on the bridge", Peter convinces Tim that he isn't a hero, claiming that his origin was an accident and that he only became Spider-Man for selfish desires. Peter abandons Tim, but Tim's mother convinces Peter to make amends with the boy, wanting to give him hope in his dying days. Peter apologizes and even unmasks in front of Tim, who recognizes Peter as Spider-Man's photographer. Peter bids farewell to Tim, encouraging him to stay strong in the face of fear.  Elsewhere, Mary Jane and Harry begin to patch up their relationship as Peter returns to the cemetery to pay his respects at Gwen’s grave. In the distance, he also notices Tim's grave as well, realizing that even though he may not "want" to be Spider-Man, he "has" to continue being Spider-Man to inspire others.