Allison Johnson is an aspiring musician, engaged to her high school boyfriend, Nathan Adams. The day following their engagement party, Allison causes an accident while driving with her eyes off the road, killing her future brother-in-law and sister-in-law, Jesse and Molly, and sustaining critical injuries.  One year later, dealing with severe depression and unable to deal with her guilt, Allison lives with her mother, Diane, who attempts to curb her daughter's addiction to pain pills. Meanwhile, Nathan and Molly's ex-cop father, Daniel, is taking care of his granddaughter, Ryan, who is still processing the loss of her parents.  After failing to get drugs illicitly from her friend, Becka, and after a humiliating encounter with two high school acquaintances leads her into a downward spiral, Allison joins an AA group. There, she unexpectedly encounters Daniel, who reveals in a meeting that his drinking resulted in repeated blackouts where he wouldn't remember his violent behavior, and that, on one such occasion, he destroyed the hearing in Nathan's ear. Ryan, in her turn, is bullied for her status as an orphan and in trouble for her behavior.  Allison meets Daniel at his house, and while leaving, she is confronted by Ryan for Allison's direct responsibility in her parents’ deaths. Allison eventually relapses, before pulling herself together and accompanying Ryan to a concert, where Allison is reintroduced to Nathan and his new paralegal girlfriend. Allison is devastated at what she perceives as a cruel act by Ryan, and accompanies her to an after-party where she relapses again. Allison is unable to protect Ryan being taken advantage of in a back room, but Daniel arrives drunk and puts an end to it, threatening Ryan’s rapist with a handgun. During the altercation, Nathan steps in front of the gun and talks his father down from his relapsed state. Outside, Daniel confesses that he considered Allison a test from God, but now realizes she's a waste and insults her before hailing a cab.  After accepting her role in the accident, Allison is able to move toward recovery. A year later, Allison is writing songs again, and she and Nathan reacquaint themselves. Daniel passes away suddenly, leaving Ryan in Nathan's care until she leaves for college, and Allison attends the funeral where she discovers Daniel's letter to her explaining his thoughts and that the Latin translation of his tattoo "amor fati" is "to love one's fate". After the wake, Ryan and Allison embrace on the front stoop.