Husband and wife Pete and Ellie Wagner, derided by relatives who think they will never have children, consider adoption. They enroll in foster care, led by social workers Karen and Sharon. At a fair to meet foster children, Ellie voices her reluctance to foster/adopt a teen, when they are confronted by 15-year-old Lizzy, who impresses them.  Karen and Sharon reveal that Lizzy has two siblings, 10-year-old Juan and 6-year-old Lita, and their mother is a drug addict, in prison; if they want Lizzy, they must take Juan and Lita too. The Wagners' meeting with Lizzy and her siblings does not result in an immediate connection, making them reconsider. At Thanksgiving dinner with Ellie's family, Pete and Ellie say they have decided not to adopt. The family admits no one actually believed it would work out, so Pete and Ellie decide to officially adopt them.  Lizzy, Juan, and Lita move in with the Wagners, whose lives become hectic – Lita will only eat potato chips, Juan is extremely emotional and fragile, and Lizzy resents Ellie's attempts to parent them. The Wagners turn to a foster parent support group. Pete's mother Sandy wins the kids over by taking the family to Six Flags, but Lizzy disappears with friends and returns late, prompting Pete to ground her.  The next day, as Pete and Ellie confront Lizzy trying to leave with friends, Juan accidentally shoots a nail into his foot. Seeing Pete and Ellie rush Juan to the hospital and comfort Lita, Lizzy begins to warm up to them, and Pete invites her to vent her frustrations by demolishing the kitchen of the house he is renovating. Lita calls Pete "Daddy" after he fixes her doll during Lizzy's soccer practice. At night, Ellie walks into Juan and Lita's room, hearing Juan having a nightmare. After Ellie comforts him, Juan says, "Good night, Mommy." Ellie is overjoyed.  Pete and Ellie meet Carla, the kids' mother who is out of prison, wanting to reunite with her children. The Wagners express their feelings to the support group, but the social workers explain the system's main goal is to keep families together, and the children may be returned to their birth mother.  Carla's meetings with her children disrupt the Wagner household; the children become more unruly, leaving Pete and Ellie demotivated and frustrated. They are horrified to discover Lizzy taking naked pictures of herself to send to Jacob, her boyfriend at school, who sends her a 'dick pic'. Pete and Ellie seek out the Fernandez family, whose adoptive daughter Brenda had inspired them at their orientation. They learn Brenda is back in rehab, but Mr. and Mrs. Fernandez assure the Wagners that "things that matter are hard".  Taking the children to school the next day, Pete and Ellie confront a student named Charlie, mistakenly thinking he is Jacob, only to apologize for the mix-up when he tells them the truth; when Pete asks Charlie if he knows anyone named Jacob who's been hanging around Lizzy, Charlie points out Jacob is the school's 22-year-old janitor. They beat him up and he is arrested, as are Pete and Ellie, accidentally leaving Juan and Lita in the car unattended. Returning home after posting bail, Pete and Ellie are told by Sandy that they need to reassure Lizzy that they love her.  At the children's court hearing, the judge reads a statement from Lizzy, detailing Pete and Ellie's actions negatively. He refuses to let Ellie read her own statement, and the children are returned to Carla. Juan and Lita do not want to leave the Wagners, but Lizzy is ready. The next day, however, Karen and Sharon arrive and say that Carla never met them to pick up the kids, and they went to go find her. Carla told them she's not ready to take her kids back; it's revealed that Lizzy filled out the paperwork to reunite the family. Lizzy still believes they can go back, until Karen and Sharon reveal that Carla is using drugs again. Heartbroken and devastated by the news, Lizzy tearfully runs away as Pete and Ellie chase after her. They re-assure her that they love her, and the trio reconcile.  Four months later, the family is seen leaving the house to attend the court hearing that finalizes the adoption of Lizzy, Juan, and Lita. Whilst heading out, Lizzy shouts, "Mom, have you seen my phone?" referring to Ellie, suggesting that she had finally accepted Pete and Ellie as her parents. The family pose for a picture, joined by the judge, members of their extended family, and fellow foster families.