In New York, A psychologist conducts a session with a nuclear oncologist Nirupama, who begins to confide that hers was a marriage of convenience that provided a safe haven for pursuing her Ph.D. in the US for the past 3 years and that her husband Vishwanath aka Viz, a Kathak teacher, who has feminine behaviour. She is also put off by Viz's behaviour and is attracted to her boss, Deepankar. She doubts whether Viz has secrets of his own, she hires a P.I to tail him to probe grounds for divorce. She learns from the P.I that Viz is a Muslim. In a sudden turn of events, the investigator is killed in a seaside warehouse by Farukh, a prominent member of the cell led by Omar Qureshi.  A diary on him gives away Nirupama and the group led by Farukh invades her home and takes Viz and Nirupama hostage. Deepankar is later killed by Farukh's men. While Viz and Nirupama are held hostage inside a warehouse, Viz surprises Nirupama by killing Farukh and his men single-handedly at the warehouse and escapes with his wife. Omar and Viz have a past, Circa 2002, The Al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Viz's real name was Wizam Ahmad Kashmiri. He claims to be a Tamil Jihadi in Kashmir, wanted by the Indian Army, with a reward of  on his head. Omar accepts him into his team and drives him off to Afghanistan. Wizam becomes a trainer to the Al-Qaeda Jihadi's and also a family friend to Omar.  One day, Omar tells Wizam that American prisoners of war are still alive, incarcerated, and shifted each fortnight. He orders his deputy Salim to behead the Captain and capture it on video. The next day, Salim tells Wizam that a new tall guest is expected in the town. Wizam later that night sees Osama bin Laden  greeting the Al Qaeda chieftains in a cave. Then, a joint US-led air force begins a bombing raid on the town. Omar begins to doubt that there is an informer in the team but mistakenly orders the lynching of an innocent man. What follows is a maze of events that go back and forth in time, unravelling a plot where the sleeper agents are scraping cesium from oncological equipment to build and trigger a dirty bomb in New York City.  Nirupama is stunned to discover the true identity of Viz, his uncle Colonel Jagannathan, British friend Dr. Dawkins, and the young dancer Ashmita. Viz later reveals that he has a lot of emotional baggage and that he had executed many militants, including Nassar, Omar's boss. His mission is to bust the sleeper-cell of Al Qaeda in the US, which is planning to divert the attention through "capsules" capable of emitting mild nuclear radiation tied to pigeons while enabling Abbasi, a Nigerian suicide bomber to detonate the caesium dirty bomb in the city. Wizam and his team tries to counter Omar's plans. In the ensuing events, Wizam, Nirupama and Ashmita are arrested by the FBI for questioning.  Dawkins is murdered by Salim while picking up a videotape from an antique shop. The FBI later releases Wizam and the women from custody after a call from the Indian embassy and the Prime Minister of India, by which Wizam reveals himself as a RAW agent. Wizam along with the FBI takes down Abbasi and defuses the caesium bomb with the help of Nirupama by using a microwave oven as a Faraday cage to avoid incoming calls from any mobile phone. Omar, while escaping with Salim in a plane, tries to activate a bomb through his phone but fails. He then calls Abbasi, but the call is answered by Wizam, who tells him that Abbasi is not alive. Omar is shocked to hear this, but escapes with Salim in his plane. Wizam indicates that he would now go after Omar.