thumb|Cool Cat and Derek Savage Cool Cat is making signs for his School President campaign with one of his friends, Maria, when Maria receives a text from a number she doesn't recognize. Cool Cat entices Maria to open the message, despite not knowing who sent it – it reads that Maria is ugly and has rat hair. After several more exchanges, they discover that Butch the Bully, a neighborhood kid lurking behind a car nearby, sent the text.  Butch runs away, laughing, and finds a can of spray paint, which he uses to ruin one of Cool Cat's signs. However, the wind forces some of the spray into Butch's eyes, forcing him to run away again. Butch enlists the help of two other boys to vandalize the neighborhood.  Upon discovering this, Cool Cat runs to confront the three about their behavior, causing Butch to flee and leave the spray can with the other two boys. When the boys are asked why they are doing what Butch says, they say it is because no one loves them. Cool Cat tells them that it isn't true, and that he loves them.  After arriving home and saying goodbye to Maria, Cool Cat heads upstairs to check his e-mails, and discovers that someone has sent him hate mail. Cool Cat tells the bully "If you were nice, you would have more friends", with the bully replying that they will "get him tomorrow". Cool Cat freaks out about what the bully might do to him, causing him to have a nightmare. He arrives at the solution of standing up for himself.  The next day, Cool Cat gets invited to be in the Hollywood Christmas Parade. He asks his parents, Daddy Derek and Momma Cat, if he can go, and they say yes. Cool Cat and Daddy Derek compose and perform a rock song ("Cool Cat Loves to Rock"), and make a music video ("Cool Cat Boogie"). The two then participate in the Hollywood Parade together.  At a cookout hosted by Vivica A. Fox and Erik Estrada, Cool Cat and Maria build a sandcastle, but Butch knocks it down, causing Cool Cat to feel sad and confused. Fox and Estrada give Cool Cat advice on how to stand up to bullies. When Butch returns demanding lunch money, Cool Cat stands up to Butch for the first time, yelling at Butch and causing him to run away. Cool Cat then goes home and enters a kids' writing contest.  Some time later, Cool Cat and his friends hear a radio alert that someone is stealing candy from babies. They identify Butch as the culprit. Cool Cat chases Butch down, and Butch gets arrested by a police officer. Cool Cat and his friends then find a gun in the grass. They decide to tell Daddy Derek about it, but Butch (now released from custody) steals the gun, planning to extort kids at school out of their lunch money. Daddy Derek learns of Butch's plans and calls Butch's parents. The following morning, Daddy Derek escorts Cool Cat and his friends to school, where they see Butch showing off the gun to a friend. The police officer arrives at the scene and arrests Butch again.  Cool Cat wins his election for School President, as well as the writing contest, for which he receives $100. The film ends with Cool Cat and his friends sitting around a table and talking about what they learned.