Set in Burleson, Texas, between 2007 and 2012, the film centers on little girl Anna, daughter of Christy Beam. One day, Anna starts to vomit, and when examined by her doctor, he does not find anything abnormal. On March 20, 2008, Anna wakes up her family at midnight due to intense stomach pain, severe enough that her parents take her to the hospital. Doctors find no signs of illness, perhaps either acid reflux, or lactose intolerance, but Christy is incredulous.  The following morning, Christy finally finds a pediatrician in the hospital able to diagnose Anna with an abdominal obstruction, and he tells them he must operate immediately or she will die. After emergency surgery, the doctor explains that Anna has been left with intestinal pseudo-obstruction and she is unable to eat, so feeding tubes are needed for her nutrition. The doctor then tells the Beams about America's foremost pediatric gastroenterologist, Dr. Samuel Nurko in Boston, but explains it could take months for them to be seen. In January 2009, Christy and Anna travel to Boston despite not having an appointment with him.  Dr. Nurko has a last minute opening, and when Anna is subsequently examined at Boston Children's Hospital, the extent of her chronic illness is found. She then goes through extensive treatment. During this ordeal, Anna and her mother befriend local Massachusetts resident Angela Bradford, as well as Ben and his daughter, Haley, who has terminal cancer.  On December 29, 2011, Anna and her bigger sister Abbie, climb up to a very high branch of an old cottonwood tree. While on the branch, it begins to break. Anna goes to the trunk for safety, whereupon stepping on it, she falls into the hollowed out center to the base of the tree.  When Christy finds out what happened, she desperately calls her husband Kevin, as well as the fire department. Anna is then rescued by the firefighters, who warn Christy to expect the worst, saying that nobody could fall 30 feet without sustaining a serious injury, broken bones or paralysis. Once out, Anna is airlifted to a hospital, where a battery of tests are run, and all of them come back negative. Other than a minor concussion, Anna is uninjured.  Sometime after the fall, Anna seems to no longer be affected by her illness. When Christy and Anna go to an appointment with Dr. Nurko, he tells Christy that she is miraculously cured. Anna then recounts with her parents her experience during the fall. She describes how her soul left her body during the fall, and God promised that she would be cured of her illness upon her return to Earth.  At church, Christy shares the story of how God miraculously healed her daughter with His love. As Christy finishes her speech, one of the congregation protests, stating that he does not believe her. Ben, who has traveled from Boston upon hearing the story about Anna, believes her. He also shares that Haley died peacefully as Anna gave her faith when in the hospital (Anna is saddened by this news because Haley was a dear friend).  In the end, the Beams spend some quality time together and Christy says to always believe in miracles.