Sixteen years after the Na'vi repelled the Resources Development Administration (RDA) from Pandora, Jake Sully lives as chief of the Omatikaya clan and raises his family with Neytiri, consisting of two sons Neteyam and Lo'ak, his daughter Tuk, and adopted daughter Kiri (born from Grace Augustine's inert avatar). Spider, son of the late Colonel Miles Quaritch, frequently visits their children while being raised by human scientists who stayed on Pandora. The RDA, now led by Frances Ardmore, returns to colonize Pandora. Among new RDA members are Recombinants, Na'vi avatars implanted with the memories of deceased human soldiers, with Quaritch's Recombinant serving as their leader.  A year later, Jake leads a guerilla campaign against the RDA. During a counterinsurgency mission, Quaritch and his subordinates capture Jake's children. Jake and Neytiri arrive and frees them, but Quaritch manages to capture Spider, subsequently recognizing him as his son. After the RDA unsuccessfully interrogates Spider for additional information, Quaritch decides to spend time with Spider to gain his favor. In return, Spider teaches Quaritch about Na'vi culture and language.  Aware of the danger posed by Spider's knowledge, Jake and his family relocate themselves from the Omatikaya to Pandora's eastern sea, inhabited by the Metkayina clan. There, the family assimilates with the Metkayina: Kiri develops a spiritual bond with the sea, Jake and Neytiri assist Chief Tonowari and his wife Ronal, while Lo'ak befriends Tsireya, their daughter. Following an altercation between Tonowari's and Jake's sons after the former mocked Kiri, Lo'ak apologizes at Jake's insistence due to initiating the fight. Aonung, Tonorwari's eldest son, and his friends then entice Lo'ak to a hunting trip, stranding him in a sea predator's territory. Lo'ak is saved from the predator by Payakan, a Tulkun—an intelligent and pacifist whale-like species whom the Metkayina consider their spiritual brethren, and befriends Payakan. Upon his return, Lo'ak wins Aonung's friendship by accepting blame for the trip but is told that Payakan is an outcast. Later, Kiri links to the Metkayina's underwater Spirit Tree and meets Grace in a vision but suffers an seizure during the link-induced trance and nearly drowns. Jake summons Norm Spellman and Max Patel for help, diagnosing Kiri with epilepsy and warn that she cannot connect to the Spirit Tree again.   Eventually, Ronal heals Kiri, while Quaritch tracks Norm and Max's aircraft to the Metkayni's archipelago. Bringing Spider with him, Quaritch joins forces with the RDA's marine operations, led by Captain Mick Scoresby, and commandeers a whaling vessel hunting Tulkuns. Quaritch's squads begins raiding the archipelago and fails to determine Jake's location after interrogating various tribes. He decides to massacre villages and kill Tulkuns in order to draw Jake out. Lo'ak mentally links with Payakan and learns he was cast out because he attacked human whalers who killed his mother, resulting in many Tulkun casualties.  When the Metkayina learns of the Tulkun killings, Lo'ak goes to warn Payakan, followed by his siblings and friends. Finding Payakan being hunted, Quaritch captures Lo'ak, Tsireya, and Tuk. Jake, Neytiri, and the Metkayina then confronts the humans and rescues the kids. Quaritch forces Jake to surrender, but Payakan attacks the vessel, initiating a battle between the Metkayina and the humans. Spider cripples the vessel, while Neteyam rescues Lo'ak, Tsireya, and Spider, but was fatally shot. Being traumatized by Neteyam's death, Jake and Neytiri resolve to save their daughters, who were recaptured. Jake faces Quaritch, who holds Kiri hostage, but desists when Neytiri does the same with Spider. Jake, Quaritch, Neytiri, and Tuk are trapped inside the sinking vessel. After a tense skirmish, Jake strangles Quaritch unconscious and is rescued by Lo'ak and Payakan, while Kiri recovers Neytiri and Tuk. Spider rescues Quaritch but refuses to go with him and rejoins Jake's family.  After Neteyam's funeral, Jake informs Tonowari of his decision to leave the Metkayina. However, Tonowari identifies his family as being part of the clan out of reverence and welcomes them to stay. Jake's family accept their new lives at sea but vow to resume their campaign against the RDA.