On the eve of the first day of school, Brady and McKenzie (Mack) celebrate the day they met and reminisce about the summer ("Best Summer Ever"), while they watch Brady's favorite movie, Wet Side Story, the 1960s musical film that they got stuck in. Mack dismisses Brady's fear that their relationship will change when they begin school. Mack then notices she lost the necklace she received while in the Wet Side Story world.  At school, Brady and Mack reunite with their respective friends, Devon and Alyssa, who are surprised by their new relationship due to their opposite personalities. Later, in class, Brady is working on surfboard designs, but hides them when Mack asks him what he is doing. Mack begins work on a "Save the Beach" dance, despite Brady's attempts to see her. Struggling with a college application, Brady works on a surfboard instead and accidentally forgets about a college fair that he was to attend with Mack, upsetting her to the point that they break up ("On My Own").  In the Wet Side Story world, Lela and Tanner suddenly break with the film's plot, having experienced changes within themselves since Mack and Brady's visit. They then notice Mack's washed-up necklace and journey into the ocean, eventually winding up in the same world as Mack and Brady, who are still not on good terms. With Lela and Tanner marveling at the wonders of the modern world ("Right Where I Wanna Be"), Mack and Brady choose to show them that the world is not as great as it seems, in hopes that they will return to their own world. Meanwhile, the characters of Wet Side Story are left confused without Lela and Tanner, with Cheechee and Seacat attempting, but failing, to substitute for the starring duo ("Falling for Ya").  Brady and Mack bring Lela and Tanner to school, where their movie characteristics come out against Mack and Brady's cautions ("Wanna Be with You", "Twist Your Frown Upside Down"). Lela becomes too enthralled with math homework to spend time with Tanner after school, and Tanner confesses to Brady that he worries he is not enough for Lela, while Brady reveals to Tanner that he and Mack are taking a break. He also shows Tanner his surfboards, and alludes that Mack might not understand his newfound hobby. Realizing that Lela and Tanner are becoming part of the modern world, Mack and Brady attempts to convince them that they are just characters from a film, showing them clips from Wet Side Story ("Silver Screen"). Upset by this, Lela throws the necklace into the ocean, prompting Mack and Brady to search for it. Meanwhile, back in the Wet Side Story world, characters begin disappearing. Butchy notices the washed-up necklace, which he uses to lead the film gang into the modern world, where they inform Lela, Tanner, Brady, and Mack about the disappearing characters. Brady and Mack realize that without the main actors, the film world would cease to exist. The film characters return to their world.  Brady and Mack avoid each other during the "Save the Beach" dance, but are greeted by the characters of Wet Side Story, who decides to return to get them to reconcile ("Gotta Be Me"). When Butchy disappears with the necklace, Brady and Mack run to get Mack's grandfather's surfboard, which they first used to get into the Wet Side Story universe. With no waves, Brady decides to use a motorized surfboard he created, along with the emblem from Mack's grandfather's surfboard. Mack compares Brady's hobby to her grandfather's surfboard passion, and they agree not to keep secrets from each other ("Meant to Be").  Before Tanner and Lela leave, Mack tells Lela to make the movie her story. Brady fixes a surfboard malfunction, allowing Lela and Tanner to depart. When Brady emerges from the ocean, he and Mack appear not to know each other; they later meet at the "Save the Beach" dance, which Mack says is themed after her favorite movie, Lela, Queen of the Beach. It is revealed that Lela had followed Mack's advice and changed the movie, giving it more feminist tones but unintentionally erasing Brady and Mack's history together since the two originally met by Brady showing Mack Wet Side Story. Despite this, Mack and Brady flirt and fall in love again, restoring their relationship ("That's How We Do").