Since kindergarten, Handsome Davis and Sammy Green have been stealing teachers' test answer keys to cheat on tests. By the time they're in middle school, they regularly have a classmate named Evan Rosengarten do their homework for them, and they pay Evan with hardcore porn videos that Handsome steals from his dad's collection. This ends when Evan's mom finds out that Handsome gave her son a bestiality tape, though Handsome counts on his dad being too ashamed to press the issue.  In high school, they expand their cheating operation by partnering with Victor Barone and Jon Applebee (the latter being their expert crib sheet maker), getting a copy of the janitor's master key, and trading answers to other classmates for money and favors. Principal Stark finds out the key was stolen and publicly announces that she's having all the school's locks changed. Handsome insists on stealing something to let their customers know they're still in business, and they end up offering Teddy Blue a chance to see the school psychologist's file on her; during the break-in, Applebee tries to call off the operation because he desperately doesn't want any of his teammates to read his own psychological file. They are caught by the janitor because of Applebee's hesitation, but manage to lie their way out of it.  Physics teacher Mr. Harkin is about to give an incredibly difficult midterm exam, and to steal his answer key, Handsome fakes confiding in Harkin about being sexually confused while Victor copies his answer key. Victor tells Handsome that they should cut ties with Applebee entirely, but Handsome gets him to settle on only excluding Applebee from the upcoming physics midterm. They eventually reconcile, but tensions remain high between Victor and Applebee. Sammy starts getting a smart, upstanding classmate named Julie Merkel to tutor him, and tells Handsome that he doesn't want to cheat on tests anymore, but Handsome convinces Sammy to keep participating. Handsome, Sammy and Victor cheat on the physics midterm, after which Harkin pulls the three of them aside to accuse them of cheating. Handsome denies cheating in a dramatic rant, during which he pulls off his shirt. Harkin believes him, while Sammy and Victor are reprimanded by Principal Stark.  World history teacher Mrs. Herman, nicknamed "the grade book" for keeping a meticulous written record of her students' daily behaviors, is about to give her class their final exam. Julie, resentful for being waitlisted by Tufts University and having to compete with cheaters for good grades, convinces the other girls to stop giving their notes to the boys. Sammy decides to exclude himself from cheating on the history final. Victor takes his frustration out on Herman's adopted sons with a cruel prank phone call, but is convinced by Handsome to apologize to them and recruit their help in stealing their mother's answer key. Victor and Handsome nickname them "Greedy" and "Horny" for demanding $400 and a date with a girl they both have a crush on. Victor receives the answer key from them, and the crew of six - Handsome, Victor, Applebee, and three new accomplices - forsake crib sheets in favor of making up an obscene song to help them memorize the answers. Principal Stark is convinced that Sammy and Victor have turned over a new leaf, and decides not to punish them after all.  Towards the end of their senior year, Mrs. Herman uses her grade book as leverage against her students while they're seeking college admissions, spurring Handsome and Victor to steal and destroy her grade book. The collective punishments given to the class, and lack of grading data jeopardizing their final grades, threatens to turn Handsome's and Victor's classmates against them. Principal Stark receives an anonymous letter that blames Victor alone for stealing the grade book, and Stark trusts Sammy - a founding member of the student court - to confirm Victor's guilt. Handsome, Victor and Sammy (now working as a double agent to help his friends) suspect Applebee wrote the letter, and having to prevent anyone from Herman's class from naming them on their upcoming video depositions. Handsome tries to intimidate Julie by convincing her that students will chant "Julie is a rat" during their graduation ceremony. Victor goes overboard in trying to intimidate Applebee, causing Applebee to immediately testify that Victor is guilty.  Sammy is able to offer Victor a plea bargain, in which he retakes world history at summer school to still get his diploma. Victor reveals Handsome's involvement in his guilty plea. Sammy offers Handsome the same plea bargain, which Handsome ultimately accepts. At graduation, Handsome apologizes to Applebee for having looked at his psychological profile earlier in the year, which stated that Applebee has a crooked penis. Mr. Harkin gives Handsome an achievement award in physics, to the crowd's shock - while narrating to the viewer, Handsome insists that he truly did pass the physics midterm without cheating, despite his pattern of doing so elsewhere. The crowd mocks Handsome by chanting "cheated on the midterm", to which Handsome happily shrugs. As the credits roll, it's revealed that Mrs. Herman's adopted sons wrote the anonymous letter to get revenge on Victor, Victor himself was also adopted, Sammy tried to have sex with Julie in her sleep, Mr. Harkin taught Handsome and Victor's summer school class, and that they wore skimpy clothing to try to ensure themselves A-grades, suggesting that Mr. Harkin himself is gay.