In 2014, James Donahue finds a video on YouTube containing an image of a woman he believes to be his sister Heather, who disappeared in 1994 near Burkittsville, Maryland while investigating the legend of the Blair Witch. He decides to travel to the woods to find out the truth, accompanied by his friend Peter Jones, Peter's girlfriend Ashley Bennett, and film student Lisa Arlington, who wants to film James' search as a documentary, The Absence of Closure. Locals Talia and Lane, who found and uploaded the video, say they will show the group the location that they found the tape, on the condition they can join them.  While walking through the woods and upon setting up camp for the night, Lane and Talia discuss the disappearance of Heather and her film crew, the 1940-41 murders by Rustin Parr, and other mysterious occurrences, which they ascribe to the Blair Witch. Specifically, Lane explains that the witch was not just left tied to a tree to die, instead tied high up in the tree with weights on her arms and legs to act as a makeshift torture rack.  The group hear noises during the night, then awaken at 2 p.m. to find strange stick figures hanging from the trees. When Lisa notices twine in Lane's backpack, he and Talia admit to creating the figures in order to convince the group to believe, but also point out that there is no explanation for the strange noises during the night and sleeping through the day. James and his associates banish Lane and Talia from the group and head out of the woods.  After hours of walking, the four arrive back at their original campsite. Lisa pilots a drone to obtain their location, but from its vantage point they can see no way out of the forest. Ashley becomes sick due to a wound on her foot, forcing the group to camp again. When Peter inspects Ashley's wounded foot, he notices what he thinks may be a parasite inside the wound. Peter leaves the camp for firewood, and is chased by an unknown entity. A tree falls on him and his body then disappears.  Lane and Talia appear in the night, claiming they have been wandering for five days without a sunrise. Lane believes the camp is a hallucination and runs off, leaving the disheveled and ravenously hungry Talia. The next morning, James and Lisa find that it is still dark outside at 7am and discover larger stick figures. Talia sees clumps of her hair tied to one of the figures. Ashley accuses Talia of crafting them and snaps the figure with Talia's hair in half; Talia herself is then snapped in half. An unseen force lifts their tent into the sky and the group is separated.  Ashley finds the drone and climbs a tree to recover it, but is knocked out and falls from the tree, an unknown entity dragging her away. A rainstorm ensues as Lisa and James stumble across Rustin Parr's house, which James had previously stated to have been burned down after Parr's execution. James hears someone he thinks is Heather scream upstairs, enters the house without Lisa, and sees Peter standing in a corner. He chases after the figure he believes to be Heather, a teleporting disheveled figure; upon its vanishing he barricades himself.  Lisa spots a tall, pale, long-limbed creature moving through the trees, and she runs inside the house. She enters the basement where she finds a hostile Lane who traps her in a tunnel, saying, "You have to do what she tells you". She escapes the tunnel, and stabs and kills Lane on the other side. The long-limbed creature emerges from the tunnel and chases Lisa. She runs up to the attic with Lane's camcorder, passing a mirror that shows Heather, revealing that the tape found by Lane is actually the one being recorded by Lisa, creating the paradox video that lured them all to the woods.  She reunites with James in the attic and they try to barricade the door. A bright light shines from outside the building. James tells Lisa to face the corner of the room and desperately apologizes to her before something enters the room. James is tricked into turning around, believing that he hears Heather's voice, and vanishes from sight. Lisa realizes she will die if she turns around so she uses Lane's camcorder to view what is behind her, catching a glimpse of the long-limbed creature behind her, and begins walking backward. She thinks she hears James' voice and turns to look whereupon she is snatched away. Her camera falls to the ground. After a few moments, the camera gives out.