A hunter tries to shoot a bear to bring home as a trophy until a large, hairy creature attacks and kills him. The creature appeared to be the legendary monster Bigfoot who then goes back to his cave to sleep. He then attacks and kills an elderly couple by turning over their RV. When Bigfoot attacks a 1980s-themed rock concert in Deadwood, South Dakota, after the noise disturbed its hibernation, the cynical event organizer Harley Henderson (Danny Bonaduce) tries to kill the giant beast and create a tourist attraction around its stuffed body.  However, his former musical partner, Simon Quinn (Barry Williams), now an environmentalist, realizes the creature is the last of its species and is determined to make sure it does not become extinct. Harley goes to great lengths to kill the creature, in order to save his concert from being canceled, but Simon thinks that the creature is just protecting its territory from trespassers. Harley assembles a team of hunters and mercenaries to track down Bigfoot. A group of men and women try to capture Bigfoot on camera, but all of them get killed.  Simon uses a hang glider to spot the creature, while Harley and his men try to kill him, however, Bigfoot kills three men in the process. Harley uses a rifle to shoot down Simon's hang glider. Army helicopters pursue the creature, leading it straight to the concert. Most of Simon's activist friends get killed by Bigfoot or the National Guard for their interference. They evacuate the town to avoid more casualties. With all his men killed,   Sheriff Alvarez (Sherilyn Fenn) and her partner Gunderson (Bruce Davison) try to call off an air strike after they spot Henderson and Quinn on Mount Rushmore trying to trap the creature. Henderson gets killed when Bigfoot kicks his patrol car into a tree, crushing Gunderson. He tells Alvarez that she is a great sheriff and that her father would be proud. Unfortunately, Bigfoot is killed in the process when attack jets fire missiles at him, destroying Mount Rushmore as well.  A year later, Mayor Tom Gillis, having survived his injuries, congratulates Henderson and Quinn for being heroes, and unveils a statue of them in their honor. Mount Rushmore is also being rebuilt as a new monument.