An animated adventure about a young girl named Coco who is fascinated with penguins, and wears a penguin costume often. One fateful day, after being taunted by bullies saying penguins couldn't fly, she attempts to fly anyway, as she claims her now deceased father has flown with other penguins in the past, and ends up falling. She then comes across a golden feathered wing, and a penguin shaped capsule, containing parts for a toy robot cat, who comes to life and lures Coco to a hidden store full of penguin merchandise. The robotic cat transforms into his real form, a goblin named Chaley. He believes her to be the chosen "flightless bird" who would save his world from peril, and so they travel to a fantasy land where other goblins live. Coco's grandfather follows her in silence to see what was going on. The villagers tell Coco about an evil entity named Buccaboo, and his devil henchmen, and about how he has gotten more powerful than ever, slowly destroying the goblins' village. Buccaboo's lead henchman, Zammie, comes to the village to taunt the goblins even more. Coco, who calls him a bully, thinks this was all a mistake, since she is a human and not a bird. They offer to take her back home, but she gets suspicious about Zammie's true identity, Coco and Chaley set out to investigate about Buccaboo's true motives. They find out Zammie is actually a fallen, one winged angel, who fell from heaven, and Buccaboo has been using him and his heavenly powers to become more powerful, making him act evil in the process. Coco and Chaley help Zammie escape from Buccaboo's lair, and they try to get Zammie's missing wing so that he can return to heaven, before Buccaboo finds out and destroys the village completely. Coco has to really fly to recover the wing, through memories of her father, she is able to summon him from heaven, who lifts her and grants her the ability to really fly. She also gets the help of her grandfather and gods who are represented in Coco's home world in a statue. Buccaboo is defeated as Zammie recovers his second wing and goes back to heaven. Coco is finally able to go back home only to find her grandpa added to the statue. The Penguin Store disappears and Chaley goes back to his robotic toy cat form.