One year after the previous film, Callie and Joseph are still on the farm and he proposes, and she accepts. That evening, everyone celebrates the engagement, and his chauffeur, Leo, insists that the city misses Joseph, which he finds hard to believe.   The following morning, Joseph finds out his mother ran off with her yoga instructor and has left the company to him, much to his dismay. After finding out a woman named Victoria has been appointed temporary CEO, Joseph is concerned as she is unsuitable. Joseph's mother was inspired by Callie and Joseph's love to find her own.   Brandy comes to visit Callie earlier than expected after hearing about her engagement to Joseph, but mistakes Manny for her fiancé, much to his confusion. Callie introduces Joseph as her fiancé to Brandy, making things slightly awkward. Later, Joseph tells Callie he must head back to San Francisco for a while and asks her to come along. Callie agrees, leaving Manny and Brandy to look after Hannah and the farm.   In San Francisco, Callie starts to enjoy the city and later that evening at a hotel, Callie is introduced to Victoria, who tells her she can help her as needed. Joseph's mother booked a wedding venue for them when she found out he was going to propose. Joseph tells Callie that the date has also been set for Christmas Eve, much to her shock as they haven't been engaged very long, but she says she will think about it.  Meanwhile on the farm, Manny develops a crush on Brandy and back at the city after speaking to Brandy, Callie agrees to get married on Christmas Eve. She and Joseph attend a party where she is overwhelmed by all the people but still enjoys herself. Back on the farm, Manny and Brandy bond over a video game and almost kiss before they stop themselves. The following morning, she kisses him.    In San Francisco, Joseph struggles with being the CEO of his family company and Callie helps out with ideas to make it successful. She starts to adapt to San Francisco as she and Joseph plan their wedding. Manny and Brandy start to date as she gets closer to Callie's sister Hannah.  Callie confronts Joseph after she feels that he is getting too attached to his old life as CEO of his dad's company. And Hannah is upset that Callie hasn't contacted her, so Manny comforts and cheers her up. Callie spends time with Owen, helping him in his play where he plays Joseph as he needs a Mary at the last minute. Joseph and Callie have a fight about the wedding due to Victoria, and she hands back the ring. Back on the farm, Manny confesses his love for Brandy, which she reciprocates.  Callie is picked up by Brandy and they talk about Joseph, Brandy reminds her that Joseph left his city life behind for a year because he loves her. Joseph speaks to Leo, who stops him from throwing away the engagement ring.   Back on the farm, Hannah is distant with Callie as she is still upset about her being unreachable in San Francisco. Manny and Brandy tell Callie they are dating, which she is overjoyed about. Callie and Hannah reconcile. Joseph speaks to his mother, who convinces him to do the right thing, while Callie visits her mother's grave.  Joseph cancels the gala and reconciles with Callie, who wants to marry him, and he makes peace with his ex-fiancée. Callie and Joseph marry at the vineyard, with flashbacks of their relationship. The film ends nine months later when Callie is in labor.