In the fallout of an economic crisis in the European Union and a weakened NATO alliance, collaborative dealings occurred between a progressively militant North Korea, now led by the young Kim Jong Un, and ultranationalist-dominated Russia. The increased deployment of U.S. troops abroad leaves the mainland vulnerable, and American infrastructure is increasingly vulnerable to the threat of a cyberattack.  U.S. Marine Jed Eckert is home on leave in Spokane, Washington. He reunites with his father, Spokane Police Sergeant Tom Eckert, and his brother, Matt Eckert, as well as his childhood friend Toni Walsh and her cousin Erica Martin, Matt's girlfriend. Later that night, an unexpected blackout occurs throughout the city.  The following morning, Jed and Matt awaken by strange noises in the local area, seeing swarms of invading North Korean paratroopers and transport aircraft in the sky above the town. After meeting up with their father, who tells them to flee, to their cabin in the woods, outside of town, while he helps the townspeople. They are joined there by Matt's friends Robert Kitner, Daryl Jenkins, Danny Jackson, siblings Julie and Greg Goodyear, a stranger named Pete, and later by Toni; Erica who is captured by the North Koreans. Tensions build as the group tries to decide whether to surrender to the invaders or resist, with Pete ending up betraying their position. North Korean soldiers, under the command of Captain Cho, bring Sergeant Eckert and Daryl's father, the mayor, out to convince the group to surrender; while the mayor persuades the boys to give up, additionally, Sergeant Eckert is brought forward, to speak. After he refuses to cooperate and actively encourages them to resist the invasion, is executed by Cho in front of all the group, who are hiding in the bushland.  Later, Jed announces that he intends to fight and the others agree to join him. After acquiring weapons, establishing a base in an abandoned mine, and being trained by Jed, the Wolverines (calling themselves the Wolverines after their school mascot). begin a series of guerrilla attacks against soldiers and collaborators, including Pete who gets killed in a bomb explosion. As Matt manages to free Erica from her imprisonment, he jeopardizes the mission resulting in Greg's death. The North Koreans retaliate by locating their hideout and successfully bombard the surrounding woods, which destroys the Wolverines' base, killing Danny and Julie, with the remaining survivors fleeing deeper into the woods.  The Wolverines eventually encounter U.S. Marine Sergeant Major Andrew Tanner and two other Marines, Corporal Smith, and Sergeant Hodges. They revealed that the Russian-backed North Korean invasion used an EMP weapon that crippled the U.S. electrical grid and military, followed by landings along the east and west coasts. American counterattacks eventually halted their advances, leaving an area stretching from Michigan to Montana and Alabama to Arizona as "Free America", using the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachians as geographic buffers, while pockets of resistance continue to fight in the occupied areas. They also revealed that Captain Cho's suitcase contains an EMP-resistant radiotelephone, that if captured, would enable the U.S. command to listen in on enemy communication and gain a tactical advantage in a counter-offensive. The Wolverines assist Tanner, Smith, and Hodges in infiltrating the local police station, the North Koreans' center of operations. They succeed in stealing the suitcase with Jed killing Cho, though Hodges is killed in the firefight.  After they successfully escape with the suitcase, the Wolverines and Marines regroup in a safe house. However, they are ambushed by Russian Spetsnaz and Jed is killed in the firefight. Matt and the rest of the group escape with the suitcase. Robert realizes that, during the escape from the police station, Daryl was tagged with a subcutaneous tracking device that the enemy used to find them. Daryl accepts the fact that he cannot go on with them and decides to stay behind while the rest head to the Marines' extraction point.  Tanner and Smith depart in a UH-1 with the suitcase. The remaining Wolverines decide to stay behind and continue to fight, recruiting more members, with Matt now leading the effort to continue opposing the occupation.