Narrated by Lexi DiBenedetto, the short begins with the birth of the lead character, Ashley, her mothers, Karen (Levy) and Vicki (Lazar) at the scene. The story moves on where Ashley describes her early troubles of being an in-the-closet heterosexual. One event included a church sermon that rejected opposite-sex relationships except for reproduction; another detailed her playing house with her friends in which Ashley was met with hostility after suggesting a heterosexual fake marriage for the game.Love Is All You Need? Dir. Kim Rocco Shields. Prod. Dana Garner. Screenplay by Kim Rocco Shields and David Tillman. Perf. Lexi DiBennedetto, Carrie Lazar, Sheri Levy. 2011.  Ashley experiences several other events during her life. Her parents are unsupportive of heterosexuality, not knowing that their daughter is heterosexual, using heterophobic slurs like "breeder" and requesting that their children walk a different route to school after a straight couple move into their neighborhood. At school, she experiences physical and emotional bullying after it is discovered she is in a relationship with a male classmate (Dante Thorn). Upon being found out the classmate (Dante Thorn) denies their relationship in fear of being bullied by his older brother and peers at school. Later, his older brother and his companions physically attack Ashley and one of her own friends writes hetero on her forehead. Upon arriving home, her parents have received a phone call about their daughter's sexual orientation. Vicki proceeds to instruct Ashley to "march upstairs and get cleaned up". Karen, unlike her wife, disagrees, causing the two women to argue. Ashley begins to clean the marker from her face in the bathroom, where she later becomes overcome with emotion and decides to commit suicide due to the stress and violence her peers and parents put her through. As she bleeds from a self-inflicted wound, she continues to receive hateful text messages on her phone. At the end, Karen and Vicki eventually try to comfort Ashley through the door only to be met with silence, in fear they burst through the locked bathroom door to find Ashley's lifeless body.