Recently retired Irish tennis professional Chris Wilton is taken on as an instructor at an upmarket club in London. There, he strikes up a friendship with wealthy pupil Tom Hewett. Tom's sister Chloe is smitten with Chris, and they begin dating. During a family gathering, Chris meets Tom's American fiancée Nola Rice, and they become attracted to each other.  Chloe persuades her father, Alec, to give Chris a job as an executive in one of his companies. After this, Chris begins to be accepted into the family.  One afternoon, Tom's mother, Eleanor, questions Nola's choice of profession. Furious, Nola leaves the house during a thunderstorm. Chris follows Nola and confesses his feelings for her, and they have sex in a wheat field. Feeling guilty, Nola treats this as an accident. Chris, however, wants an ongoing affair. Chris and Chloe marry, while Tom ends his relationship with Nola.  Chloe, to her distress, does not become pregnant immediately. Chris tries to track down Nola, but later meets her by chance at Tate Modern. He asks for her number, and they begin an affair.  While Chris spends time with his wife's family, Nola calls to inform him that she is pregnant. Panicked, he asks her to get an abortion, but she refuses, saying she wants to raise the child with him. Chris becomes distant from Chloe. She suspects Chris is having an affair, which he denies. Nola urges him to divorce his wife; he feels trapped and finds himself lying to Chloe as well as to Nola. Nola confronts him outside his apartment and he barely escapes public detection.  Soon afterwards, Chris takes a shotgun from his father-in-law's and brings it to his office in a tennis bag. After leaving the office, he calls Nola on her mobile to tell her he has good news. He goes to her building and gains entry into the apartment of her neighbor, Mrs. Eastby, whom he shoots and kills, staging a burglary by ransacking the rooms and stealing jewelry and drugs. As Nola returns, Chris shoots her in the stairwell, then takes a taxi to the theater to watch a musical with Chloe. Scotland Yard concludes the crime was likely committed by a drug addict stealing money. The following day, as the murder is in the news, Chris returns the shotgun and he and Chloe announce that she is pregnant.  Detective Mike Banner invites Chris for an interview in relation to the murder. Before he goes to see the detectives, he throws Mrs. Eastby's jewelry and drugs into the river, but by chance her ring bounces on the railing and falls to the pavement.  At the police station, Chris lies about his relationship with Nola, but Banner surprises him with her diary, in which he is featured extensively. He confesses his affair but denies any link to the murder. Chris appeals to the detectives not to involve him further in their investigation as news of the affair may end his marriage just as he and his wife are expecting a baby.  One night, Chris sees apparitions of Nola and Mrs. Eastby, who tell him to be ready for the consequences of his actions. He replies that his crimes, though wrong, were committed for a "grander scheme", and that he can suppress his guilt. The same night, Banner dreams that Chris committed the murders. The next morning, however, Banner's theory is discredited by his partner, Dowd, who reveals a drug addict found murdered on the streets had Eastby's ring in his pocket. The detectives consider the case closed and abandon any further investigation. Chloe gives birth to a baby boy named Terence, and his uncle Tom blesses him not with greatness but with luck.