Young spy Harriet M. Welsch (Jennifer Stone) crosses paths with popular student Marion Hawthorne (Vanessa Morgan), as the two girls compete to become the official blogger of their high school class. After Marion has started blogging, Harriet lags behind because she reports what she finds interesting. Unfortunately for Harriet, her classmates do not share her views and state that her blog is boring. Harriet's nanny, Golly, suggests that she write something is of interest to both Harriet and her classmates.  Harriet sets her sights on a big pop star, Skander Hill (Wesley Morgan), who is in town starring in a movie, Spy Teen 2: The Sequel, that her father, Roger Welsch (Doug Murray), is producing. However, Violetta Welsch (Shauna MacDonald) claims that Harriet has a crush on Skander. Despite her disdain for the star of the film, Harriet starts blogging about Skander Hill. First, she goes to stalk him by doing a father/daughter visit, but Skander has an outburst and Harriet is forced off of the set.  When Harriet goes to the hotel where Skander is staying, she finds him arguing with other producers of the movie. When he switches shirts, Harriet notices a birth-mark on him and takes a picture, also stealing a water bottle. It only makes the other students love him more. Marion and her friends invite Harriet over and watch "Spy Teen". She lies and runs downstairs to talk to Skander. However, it is Sport pretending to be Skander. The posse gets excited, but Marion's still suspicious.  The next time Harriet goes to the hotel, she disguises herself as a maid and steals a hotel receipt signed by Skander, but Skander notices her, and she runs away. She shows Marion the signature, but Marion claims it is a forgery. Skander spots Harriet stalking him and follows her to Janie's house. Meanwhile, Harriet's friends decide to cut off their friendship with her because she is too obsessed with Skander. They feel left out and claim that Harriet is befriending the people whom she once despised. While leaving, Harriet bumps into a chemical made by her eco-friend. This causes a loud noise to emanate from Janie's room, which Skander believes to be someone trying to blow him up.  Back at the set, Skander accidentally starts a food fight, which Harriet tries to record, but she notices her father and does not record. When she follows her nanny Golly, she deduces she has a boyfriend. After a long argument, Harriet figures out that Golly is leaving, which causes an uproar in the family. Marion asks Harriet for real proof. Harriet goes back to the set and is put in as an extra, and later Skander comes up to her and devotes his anger to her, while she was recording.  Soon after, she puts the rant on her blog, which Marion puts on the web. Skander quits the movie because he realizes Roger's daughter is the spy. Harriet soon gets back with her friends, and Sport makes a basket. Harriet gives Skander a heartfelt apology, but Skander still quits because he wanted her to stop her blog, but Roger will not allow that, as he believes Harriet is an avid writer. Then Skander gets a major role in another movie. He hugs Harriet and kisses her on the cheek, and then he rejoins the movie, returning everything to normal.  Harriet gets the blog (while Marion loses because she violated the rules to publicize Skander's rant), and at the end, magazines show a possible relationship between Skander and Harriet.