Six years after an apocalyptic event, Sarah lives alone in a farmhouse, her time spent cleaning, piano playing and writing in a diary. One day, (after many years of being alone) her sister, Lili , bleeding from her abdomen, approaches the house. Sarah takes her sister into the bathroom and attempts to undress her, but is rebuffed. At night, upon hearing a noise, Sarah investigates while carrying a gun. Startled by a man outside the house, she shoots, killing him. In the morning she drags the body into a shed. Soon another man appears. Ryan shows Sarah a sketch he had made of her, years ago as she and her father were in a city, and has searched to find her.  Ryan attempts to convince Sarah that the "end of the world" never happened, that there are people and cities in the world. Lili argues with Sarah, insisting that she get the man to leave the house. As Lili attempts to have her sister force Ryan away, Sarah becomes attracted to him and eventually begin a romantic event in the grasses outside the house. Interrupted by Lili's screams, the two break down her door to find her threatening each with a knife. Separating for the night, Sarah wakes alone in the morning. Finding her dress stained she changes into a prom dress that she had been making. After seeing a sign and Lilis door reading "dont trip" (which Sarah ignores) Sarah trips on a lucky charm necklace, falling down the stairs and sustains an abdominal wound after landing on a chandelier. The two sisters argue, culminating in Sarah stabbing Lili.  Ryan finds Sarah bleeding on the floor. He attempts to convince her that Lili never existed by showing her the pictures in the room. He bandages her wounds and attempts to undress her in the bathroom, but denies his assistance much like how her sister refused help a few days ago. She agrees to go with Ryan to the city, departing for the day–long hike in the morning. Along the walk she confronts Ryan, who pushes a finger into her abdominal wound, he tells her it hasn't been six years since anything and that was all in her head. Lying on the ground she recalls walking along a city street with her dad as he presents her with the very same lucky charm necklace. She begins running toward the Fourth of July fireworks, turning to find him gone. She walks back, stopping at an alley where he is being attacked by a masked man. He shoots Sarah's father then stabs her twice and while speaking to her Sarah realizes that the man is Ryan. While on the ground Sarah shoots a gun at him, then turns to see her dying father. Back in the fields Sarah shoots at Ryan, but cannot find his body. She gathers her belongings, continuing to walk the path until she approaches the city.