In 1991, alcoholic NYPD Detective Matt Scudder survives a shootout with three criminals who rob his local bar. Eight years later, Scudder is retired and sober, working as an unlicensed private investigator. Peter Kristo, a fellow Alcoholics Anonymous member, brings Scudder to his brother Kenny, a wealthy drug trafficker. Kenny explains that his wife Carrie was abducted, and though he delivered the ransom, the kidnappers dismembered her, leaving him a tape recording of her brutal rape and murder. Agreeing to find the killers, Scudder visits the New York Public Library to research similar murders and meets TJ, a homeless teen with a knack for detective work.  Scudder investigates the death of another woman, Leila Andresen, whose dismembered body was found in Green-Wood Cemetery. He discovers that her fiancé is tied to the drug trade, and confronts Jonas Loogan, the cemetery groundskeeper. Admitting that he helped the two men who killed Leila, Jonas kills himself. Scudder learns that another victim, Marie Gotteskind, was an undercover DEA agent murdered by the same killers, and realizes they are using her files to target drug dealers, kidnapping and killing their loved ones.  After being accosted by DEA agents, Scudder confronts Peter, who had informed on Kenny to Marie, unknowingly providing the information that allowed the killers to kidnap Carrie. TJ is beaten by neighborhood dealers for stealing a handgun, and Scudder visits him in the hospital. He reveals that a young girl was killed in the shootout in 1991, prompting him to leave the police force and his drinking behind.  Kenny asks Scudder to help fellow trafficker Yuri Landau, whose daughter Lucia has been taken by the killers, Ray and Albert. When the kidnappers call, Scudder convinces them to return Lucia alive in exchange for one million dollars. Meeting at the cemetery, Scudder delivers the money and Lucia is reunited with her father, but Albert discovers much of the cash is counterfeit. In the ensuing shootout, Peter is killed while Albert and a wounded Ray escape in their van, unaware TJ is hiding in the back.  TJ calls Scudder, leading him and Kenny to the killers' house, while Albert kills Ray. Leaving Albert's fate in Kenny's hands, Scudder sends TJ to his apartment in a taxi, but returns to find Kenny dead. Albert overpowers Scudder with a garotte and attacks him with a cleaver, but Scudder subdues him with Ray's taser before shooting him in the head. Watching from afar as police arrive at the scene, Scudder returns home.