Four young urban explorers from the United States, South America, Asia, and Europe meet up in Berlin via the internet to explore the subterranean relics of Nazi Germany. The destination for the illegal tour, through a labyrinth of tunnels, sewers, and catacombs, is a special bunker, the Fahrerbunker (Hitler's subterranean garage) which is the center of many legends, where they expect to find the debris of forbidden Nazi wall murals. But when tragedy strikes the group's leader, they soon realize not all things go according to plan.  After the group's local tour leader Kris (Riemelt) falls and breaks his leg, Marie (De Léan) and Juna (Koo) go for help and find their way back to the club.  Lucia (Kelley) is a nurse so she and Denis (Eversman) stay to help Kris.  A German only speaking Armin shows up who Denis tries to understand with his limited German skills.  The three carry Kris to Armin's lair.  He gives Kris an injection and uses a telephone to "call" for help.  Both Denis and Lucia do not trust the unshaven dirty underground dwelling Armin.  Meanwhile, Lucia and Juna are seen lost under Berlin.  Denis wakes up from his own injection tied to a metal bed.  He breaks free to find Lucia trapped in a chair being tortured by Armin, and Denis watches, too cowardly to act. Eventually, he manages to free Lucia but Armin knows the underground and keeps the horror coming. Lucia falls down a hole, and Denis must return to get the ropes. Before he leaves, they exchange "I love yous". While doing so, he discovers that Marie and Juna have been killed and butchered by Armin. Armin overpowers Denis and guts him.  Lucia hears the sound of the subway and crawls her way there.  She finds a man who offers her help but Armin kills him.  She gets on the subway car but so does Armin who poses as a subway ticket checker.  Her protests of help and accusations of murder go unheeded.  Armin removes her from the car and then kills her.  Kris wakes from his injection and crawls to a water escape.  His body is seen dead in an open sewer and the movie ends.