Divorced American Harvey Shine writes television commercial jingles, despite being a jazz pianist and composer. As he departs for his daughter Susan's wedding in London his job is tenuous. Upon arrival at Heathrow, he encounters single Londoner Kate Walker who collects statistics from passengers as they pass through the terminals. Harvey brusquely dismisses her, as he is anxious to get to his hotel.  At the hotel, Harvey finds he is the only wedding guest booked there, as the house his ex-wife Jean rented is for all the US guests—except him. At the rehearsal dinner, Harvey is clearly an outsider to his daughter's life and excluded from Jean's new husband Brian's clan. Their insincere politeness makes him uncomfortable.   Harvey tells Susan he can attend the ceremony but not the reception, as he has to urgently return to the States. She replies that, as Brian has been more of a father to her recently than he, she prefers that Brian walk her down the aisle.  Meanwhile, Kate is on an unsuccessful blind date. After a call from her neurotic mother Maggie, she returns to the table to find her date has invited some of his friends to join them. Feeling excluded, she goes home.  The next morning, Harvey is slighted when he is seated at the back of the church rather than near his daughter. He leaves immediately after the ceremony for the airport, but heavy London traffic causes him to miss his flight. Calling his boss about the delay, he is fired. Drinking in the airport bar, he recognizes Kate from the day before. He apologizes for his rude behavior, and she initially resists his attention. Soon they are both glad to finally have an honest, genuine conversation.  Harvey does not want to stay in an airport hotel, so he follows Kate, joining her on the train to Paddington station. He walks with her to her writing class on the South Bank. Kate is pleased when he meets her afterwards. As they stroll along the River Thames, Harvey mentions he is missing the wedding reception, and Kate urges him to go.   Harvey relents, but only if Kate accompanies him. Insisting she is not properly dressed, Harvey buys her a dress. At the Grosvenor House Hotel, they are welcomed by Susan and placed at the children's table, the only seats still available. When the 'father of the bride' is called to make a toast, Brian starts to speak, but Harvey interrupts, as he is her biological father. His touching, eloquent speech redeems him with Susan and endears him to Kate.  After the couple's first dance as husband and wife, the groom calls Harvey to dance with Susan. He happily does so; then everyone joins them on the dance floor. As Harvey is enjoying himself, Kate is left alone at the children's table. Feeling out of place and seemingly forgotten, Kate quietly leaves, but Harvey realizes she has gone.  Harvey sees her at the elevator, then ducks into a nearby room and begins to softly play jazz. Hearing the music, Kate finds Harvey smiling and waiting for her. He asks her to return to the reception so he can "dance her socks off". She agrees and they have a great time.  Afterwards, they walk and talk through London until dawn. On parting they exchange a single, gentle kiss, agreeing to meet at noon that day. Back at his hotel, Harvey has serious heart palpitations after faulty lifts force him to use the stairs. In hospital, he is forced to stay for treatment and misses the appointment with Kate, who turns up and waits for him.   When Harvey is discharged the next day, his boss calls and asks him to return immediately, as they've been unable to handle an important account without him. He declines, preferring to stay and try to make amends with Kate.   He calls Kate at work to explain, but she refuses to take the call. He goes looking for her at the airport and finally tracks her down at her writing class. Explaining why he missed their rendezvous, he says he wants them to pursue a relationship. Fearing emotional pain, she resists, but finally agrees to try.  As they stroll along the South Bank, Harvey suggests she ask him the questions she originally had for him at the airport. When she asks him for his place of residence, he says it is "in transition".