Businessman Tommy Ackerman's preoccupation with his job has interfered with his relationship with his wife, Grace, and their two children, Hannah and Henry. Grace insists the family attend Camp Katokwah, a church camp, located in the Ouachita National Forest. Upon arrival, the Ackermans discover Tommy failed to complete their reservation for a cabin and they are assigned to share a yurt with the Sanders family, whose vehicle had earlier passed them aggressively en route to the camp. Eddie Sanders is an insecure, self-absorbed chiropractor who, along with his wife, Victoria, and their two children Eddie Jr. and Barb, present themselves as the perfect family. Tensions quickly rise, especially between Tommy and Eddie. The two families compete for the Camp Katokwah trophy, won by the Sanders the past two years. Meanwhile, Tommy and Grace continue to navigate through their difficulties caused by Tommy's job commitments. Their teenaged daughter, Hannah, begins seeing a boy, which concerns Grace. Henry, who randomly takes videos, records an argument between Eddie and Victoria, which Tommy later views inadvertently.  Tommy and Eddie join several other men from the camp on a hike to deepen their faith. The pair becomes separated from the group and eventually lost after Eddie's attempt to take a honeycomb results in a swarm of bees attacking both men. Searchers are unable to locate them and Henry also becomes lost when he leaves camp to find his father. The differences between Tommy and Eddie come to a head; however, they are forced to unite against a pair of failed reality television show hunters who tie them up, believing they are thieves. Henry is located to Grace's delight. Tommy and Eddie finally escape and find the trail back to camp. Tommy discovers Eddie had a compass and map and is furious when Eddie admits he got them lost intentionally in order for Victoria to appreciate him upon his return. The men return to camp, but are estranged.  During the ceremony which awards the Sanders with the camp trophy for another year, Eddie confesses his shortcomings in his marriage, and also apologizes to Tommy, giving him the trophy instead. Tommy forgives Eddie and renews his commitment to Grace that he will be a better husband.  In a post-credits scene, Slim tricks Beef out of their last hot dog.