Not long after Megatron's demise and the restoration of Cybertron, the Autobots celebrate as Optimus Prime knights Bumblebee a warrior. Optimus and Wheeljack embark on a journey to find the AllSpark, the source of Cybertronian life, leaving the other Autobots to hunt down the missing Decepticons Shockwave and Starscream. Meanwhile, at the bottom of Earth's ocean, Megatron is revived and possessed by Unicron, intending to destroy Cybertron. While searching for Shockwave and Starscream, Ultra Magnus and Smokescreen are attacked by their Predacon creations Skylynx and Darksteel, forcing Ratchet to return to Cybertron to treat their wounds.  Bumblebee, Smokescreen, Bulkhead, and Arcee track down Predaking in an attempt to find the new Predacons, but Predaking refuses to help them. After Bumblebee's team heads to Megatron's old fortress in Kaon on the imprisoned Knock Out's suggestion, they are confronted by Unicron and are forced to escape. Meanwhile, in the Theta Scorpii asteroid belt, Optimus and Wheeljack find the AllSpark's container. Despite an oncoming plasma storm that damages Wheeljack's ship, Optimus retrieves the container and begins returning to Cybertron. With Ultra Magnus wounded in action and Optimus unable to communicate with them, Bumblebee assumes temporary leadership of the Autobots.  Predaking begins searching for Skylynx and Darksteel, but finds Unicron instead. After easily defeating him, Unicron encounters Shockwave, Starscream, Darksteel, and Skylynx harvesting bones from a massive Predacon graveyard. Unicron overpowers Skylynx and Darksteel and resurrects the ancient corpses into undead Terrorcons; Starscream flees and Shockwave is seemingly killed by the Terrorcons. As the undead horde heads for the Well of All Sparks, the Autobots prepare to fight back while Ratchet stays behind with Ultra Magnus. Starscream sneaks on board the Nemesis and frees Knock Out and the captive Vehicon troops, but Knock Out defects and incapacitates Starscream before he can commandeer the ship and flee Cybertron. Predaking finds Skylynx and Darksteel at the Predacon graveyard, and the resulting brawl is interrupted by a wounded Shockwave, who suggests that they assist the Autobots. Unicron's undead army is confronted by the Nemesis and the Predacons at the Well of AllSpark, but the ship is shot down and Starscream escapes.  Optimus and Wheeljack return, but Unicron shoots down Wheeljack's ship, defeats Optimus, and seemingly claims the AllSpark. However, his Anti-Spark is pulled into the empty container, sealing it away forever. The Terrorcons disintegrate and Megatron is freed. Having a change of heart, Megatron disbands the Decepticons and leaves to start anew. Starscream tries to take command of the Decepticons only to be confronted by a vengeful Predaking, Skylynx, and Darksteel.  Optimus reveals that he emptied the AllSpark into the Matrix of Leadership within him, but can no longer be separated from either and must sacrifice himself to restore life to Cybertron. The Autobots try to dissuade him, but Optimus states that the Matrix cannot be restored again and asks that they continue to protect Cybertron. As the others vow to keep the peace and Optimus plunges into the planet's core, millions of sparks from deceased and unborn Transformers emerge from the Well. The Autobots watch as Optimus's spark joins the multitude among the Well, while he narrates that his sacrifice marks a new beginning rather than the end.