Emanuel is a 17-year-old girl still wracked with guilt that her mother died giving birth to her. She meets Claude, whom she becomes romantically involved with. Emanuel lives at her home in Los Angeles with her father and her stepmother, with whom she has issues.  A woman named Linda moves next door; she looks just like Emanuel's mother. Emanuel discovers that Linda needs a babysitter, and she takes the job so she can get to know more about Linda. Emanuel discovers that "baby Chloe" is actually a doll. As Linda and Emanuel develop a friendship, Emanuel tries to hide from others the fact that Linda's "child" is really a doll. This becomes harder when her best friend Arthur agrees to babysit so Linda can attend Emanuel's birthday dinner.  At dinner, while in the kitchen Emanuel's stepmother Janice tells Linda that Emanuel is troubled and might be misinterpreting Linda's fondness for her. When Claude agrees to landscape for Linda, Emanuel becomes angry at his sudden presence in several areas of her life. Claude tells Emanuel that she won't have to see him anymore and leaves.  Emanuel babysits when Linda goes out with Arthur. When they return home, Linda suggests Arthur go upstairs with her to see the baby, who Emanuel says is sleeping. Emanuel begs Arthur not to go upstairs but after Linda calls him up again he heads upstairs and realizes the baby is not real. Linda realizes that Chloe is a doll and panics about where her baby is, thinking that Emanuel replaced Linda's baby with a doll. They call Emanuel and ask her where Chloe is. She tells them Chloe is in her crib, and Arthur shows her that it is a doll, demanding to know where Linda's baby is. Emanuel has a meltdown, takes the doll, and faints. She has a vision in which she holds onto Chloe while water floods the room.  Emanuel swims out of a window into a body of water, holding the doll and sees her dead mother swimming. The doll springs to life and swims to Emanuel's mother, who embraces the baby and swims away. Emanuel hears her name being called and swims away until she awakens on a gurney with her father and a police officer present. She is taken to the hospital. When asked about the baby's disappearance, she claims that the baby got away in the water and went to Emanuel's mom and they both swam away. Once out of the hospital, Emanuel visits Claude at his job and makes up with him.  Linda's husband is found, and he explains to Emanuel and her parents that after much difficulty, they finally had a baby, but it died; autopsy results were inconclusive and Linda blamed herself and began to use a doll as a replacement. When her husband tried to have her institutionalized, she disappeared. Linda is currently being held in a psychiatric hospital. Emanuel later asks her father for permission to go see Linda but he refuses.   Emanuel breaks into Linda's house and steals the doll. With Claude's help, she sneaks into the psychiatric hospital and goes to Linda's room, telling her that her baby drowned. Emanuel describes her vision, omitting the part about her mom. Emanuel sneaks Linda out of the hospital and takes her to the cemetery where Emanuel's mother is buried. Emanuel digs a grave over her mother's tomb and buries Chloe in it. The movie ends with the two women lying in the dirt, watching the stars in the night sky.