Ingrid Thorburn, a mentally unstable young woman in Pennsylvania, has returned home after a stay in a recovery facility. Ingrid had been seeking treatment at the facility after an incident in which she stalked an Instagram influencer and pepper-sprayed her at her wedding. While obsessively perusing social media, Ingrid learns of another influencer named Taylor Sloane. Using money she inherited from her recently deceased mother, Ingrid travels to Los Angeles. She rents a house in Venice from Dan Pinto, an aspiring screenwriter, and gets a makeover to emulate Taylor’s style.  Ingrid familiarizes herself with the shops and cafés Taylor frequents, which leads to a sighting of Taylor at her favorite bookstore. Ingrid follows Taylor home and kidnaps her dog, Rothko. She later brings Rothko to Taylor, claiming she found the lost dog. Taylor expresses her gratitude by inviting Ingrid to have dinner with her and her artist husband Ezra. The next day, Ingrid asks to borrow Dan's truck so she can help Taylor move some belongings to her vacation home in Joshua Tree. Dan agrees on the condition that Ingrid return that evening to take part in a table read of his screenplay. Taylor and Ingrid spend the night partying together, and on the way home, Ingrid damages the truck while driving under the influence. Dan is furious at the damage and that he had to cancel last night's table read.  Ingrid and Taylor begin regularly hanging out and a bond grows between the two. One day at the Sloanes' house, Ingrid meets Taylor's brother, Nicky. Nicky is an obnoxious drug addict who regards Ingrid with suspicion about her motives. Taylor dismisses previous plans with Ingrid to attend a party with Nicky, furthering Ingrid's dislike for him. Taylor and Nicky invite Ingrid to a party that weekend at fashion  blogger Harley Chung's house, telling her to bring Dan, whom Ingrid has called her boyfriend.  Ingrid seeks ways to mend fences with Dan over his damaged truck and takes him out to dinner. After bonding over their past losses one night, the two have sex and begin a relationship. Ingrid takes Dan to Harley's party, where she becomes envious of Taylor and Harley's friendship. After a conversation with Ezra, Ingrid begins to realize that several aspects of Taylor's persona are fabricated. Nicky spies Ingrid using Taylor's birthday as her phone password and steals the phone, where he finds several incriminating photos that reveal her obsession with Taylor. Nicky uses this knowledge to blackmail Ingrid for money.  In retaliation, Ingrid convinces Dan to kidnap and terrorize Nicky to keep him quiet. Nicky escapes his bindings and attacks Dan, leading Ingrid to stun Nicky with a crowbar. Ingrid rushes Dan to the hospital and leaves Nicky in the desert. Later, Ingrid sees on Instagram that Taylor and Ezra went to Joshua Tree. She drives there to surprise them, but no one is home. When Ingrid tries to call Taylor, Ezra answers instead and says Nicky has told him and Taylor about everything. He warns Ingrid to stay away from Taylor.  In a last-ditch attempt to reach Taylor, Ingrid moves into the small house next door to her Joshua Tree place. She eventually loses power, which leads her to walk over to Taylor's home, where a Halloween party is being thrown, in order to charge her phone. When Ingrid is discovered by Taylor, she berates her, Ezra, and Nicky for faking aspects of their own lives. Taylor responds that she and Ingrid were never truly friends, then tells her to seek professional help before banishing her from the party. Ingrid returns to her small home dejected and desperate. She records a video for her public Instagram page in which she confesses her past deception and expresses hopelessness about whether she can change. She ends the video by attempting suicide with an overdose of pills.  Ingrid wakes in a hospital, having survived her suicide attempt because Dan saw the video in time. Dan informs Ingrid that her video has gone viral, and thousands of strangers have used the hashtag #iamingrid to show support. As Ingrid scrolls through all the love for her on social media, a smile starts to spread across her face.