Aspiring pop star Erica Wilson's dreams are crushed when her musical partner and producer bails on his album release party, which would've started her career. Down the street, the devastated Erica is crying in disarray with her best friend, Amber, when a couple of buskers begins to play "No One" by Alicia Keys. This causes Erica to remember when Jason, her ex-fiancé of 4 years, pulled the rug out from under her, breaking up with her right before their wedding. The song makes Erica all the more hysterical as it was supposed to play during the first dance at her wedding.   Tired of seeing her friend let go of her romantic and professional life, Amber, a social media influencer, books Erica a gig working as an entertainer at an upscale resort in Mauritius. It takes a while for Erica to accept Amber's offering, but after a bit of convincing, she takes the job.  There, Erica's greeted by the resort's jack-of-all-trades, Barrington, who is also in her band. She is hopeful the island will be paradise and a nice way to leave all her troubles behind, but she soon has a change of heart after learning that she has been hired as a wedding singer. Eria's first performance is subpar and she doubts her ability to keep her job. Barrington advises her to sing something that makes her happy, and there is a montage of Erica singing Gloria Gaynor's "I Will Survive", embracing her surroundings, and making the best of her time on the island.  Erica runs into Jason and learns that he's there for his wedding weekend. Shocked, she knows she's going to have to sing at their wedding, so she tries to avoid running into him until then. Later, Erica meets Caleb, a retired Navy SEAL who saves her from drowning. She also learns that he is Jason's brother, who she hadn't met previously, there for the wedding.  Erica meets the bride-to-be, Beverly, and the rest of the wedding party. Although Erica and Jason try to avoid each other as much as possible at the resort, Erica winds up spending a good chunk of time with them. As Beverly thinks Erica is just an old friend, not Jason's ex, she invites her to do activities with them. Erica spends a majority of her time with Caleb, getting to know each other and connecting romanticly.   The night of Beverly's bachelorette party, she learns of Jason and Erica's past, which cases drama before their big day. However, this is soon resolved after Erica explains herself in Beverly's high-speed getaway van. After making up, Beverly and Jason get married, and Erica sings "No One" by Alicia Keys at the reception. At the end of the song, Erica acknowledges her new love, Caleb, by planting a kiss on him.